---
title: Tool Box Spring
date: 1977-04-08
originalDate: Friday, April 08, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/271567
trailJournalId: 271567
dayStart: Anza
dayDestination: Tool Box Spring
todayMiles: 10
tripMiles: 100.30
---
April 8, 1977
I’m a week into it and the blisters are beginning to show. I found two large blisters on the balls of my feet on this morning. I know suspect that they were caused mostly by heat. Of course, after yesterday what can I expect? I also have shin splints real bad. There are things that I keep forgetting to put in here. Such as all during the day of April 4th we could see the Salton Sea way across the desert (Anza Borrego) and below. Yesterday I saw a deer and some quail. This morning I got up and found two other tents had joined me in the night. (I don’t recall if I spoke to these people or knew who they were.) I went over to the Post Office but no mail, I guess I’m too early. I was hoping for mail from friends who knew of my schedule and towns that I would be using for re-supply or just passing through. My first re-supply was scheduled to be Big Bear, 225 miles from the border and an estimated 14 days hike! The P.O. had a list of people who had stopped there on the PCT. There were 30 names ahead of mine! Damn I wish that I had written the names down. Perhaps the trail register still exists, somewhere. 
I hiked only ten miles today (to Tool Box Spring?) so that I could rest a while. Feet really hurt. San Jacinto (mountains) in a day or two. I’m just going to relax the rest of today so, so long.
