---
title: Scissor's Crossing
date: 1977-04-04
originalDate: Monday, April 04, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/271564
trailJournalId: 271564
dayStart: Vulcan Mountains
dayDestination: Scissor's Crossing
todayMiles: 14
tripMiles: 44.30
---
April 4, 1977
Got off early this morning. It seems that I’m feeling good and gung ho in the morning and sore and tired in the evenings. Hiked down and out of pine country into desert-like chaparral, on newly constructed permanent PCT. Didn’t see anybody all day. I think most went on the temporary route. I have already become known as “Bigfoot” among those also hiking the PCT because of the size of my footprint in the mud and length of my stride. The new trail is not in the book (Chariot Mountain) so not sure where to find water. Beautiful, clear views to the east looking down into Anza Borrego State Park. Getting desperate at the end of the day after eating snow all morning. Found water in a dam for cows luckily (?). Had to purify. Purification of the putrid mud-colored muck included filtering through a bandana, then boiling and scooping off the froth, then putting in iodine tablets, then boiling again. We ended up with about two gallons of light brown colored water, which didn’t hurt us and provided water for dinner that night, breakfast the next morning and most of the next day. Campsite is the pits but the water is here. This stretch is one of those notorious for lack of water on the southern-most section of the PCT. The Annual Day Zero PCT Kickoff gathering (ADZPCTKO) was originally set up in 1999 in order to provide long term resources to supply water caches in this and other stretches just to the north. Moon is full tonight. Elsa’s knee is hurting her. I’m feeling good after getting re-hydrated. Weather is getting hot.
Right from the first step Elsa’s knee was hurting. It appears that she can’t go on. Slowly hiked out to Highway 78 (at Scissors Crossing?) and hitchhiked to Warner Springs to see a Dr. but none in town. Spend night here and she will got to L.A. tomorrow. I will wait here for Rod and Monte (met at border) and go with them. Elsa will see a doctor and hopefully meet me in a couple weeks. This is depressing but nothing I can do. Knee has swelled a little and she can walk on it but not downhill. I don’t think her knee can take the weight pounding down. Hiked out of mountains down to desert. Hot, sun burnt. I can go at my pace now but would rather go at Elsa’s than this. Full moon.
