---
title: Saddle Junction
date: 1977-04-09
originalDate: Saturday, April 09, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/271568
trailJournalId: 271568
dayStart: Tool Box Spring
dayDestination: Saddle Junction
todayMiles: 10
tripMiles: 110.30
---
April 9, 1977
I learned a valuable lesson today. I had hiked 20 miles and within that climbed Tahquitz Peak at 8,800 feet. Clouds are starting to come in and it’s 3:30 so I start down to a saddle between Tahquitz and San Jacinto Peak. Well the snow on this side of the peak (San Jacinto’s south side but in the shadow of a ridge) was deep, and there is no sign of the trail. So I start to cross-country it except the snow is getting deeper. Every time I take a step I sink in up to my waist! It wasn’t so bad for a while but after an hour with the sun getting low and no sign of my intended campsite and no sign of human life, I started to get a bit scared. I found my way but my clothes are wet (because in my tired state I wasn’t quite thinking logically and had not stopped to put on water proof chaps and gaitors as the snow began to get deeper) and I’m a little cold but I’m alright. 
Woke up to the moon this morning staring me in the face through the roof screen in my Sierra Designs Starflight tent. Had a fire and hot cocoa with my friends Sue and Anthony who I met in Anza (the two tents that appeared in the night?). Later in the morning I met two young guys at a general store (Herkey Creek Camp); 10 and 5 years old. They had a million questions and when they heard that I was doing the PCT they disappeared into the store and came out in a few minutes later having bought me a bunch of candy “to give me energy”. It really picked me up spiritually. I suppose it was an Easter present from the great backpacker in the sky (GBITS). I camped tonight with an ex-ranger J. Paul. I actually didn’t meet J. Paul until the next morning. I had set up my tent and climbed into my sleeping bag, with barely enough energy to fix something to eat and just about to pass out when I heard someone hike up and ask “Do you mind if I camp here with you tonight?” In the dark of dusk, we introduced ourselves verbally through the tent without seeing one another. I apologized for not getting out to meet him, explaining that I was exhausted after coming 20 miles today.
