---
title: Fuller Ridge
date: 1977-04-10
originalDate: Sunday, April 10, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/271569
trailJournalId: 271569
dayStart: Saddle Junction
dayDestination: Fuller Ridge
todayMiles: 10
tripMiles: 120.30
---
April 10, 1977
I’m writing this on the 11th because of reasons I will reveal later. J. Paul turned out to be the ultimate equipment freak. Otherwise a real nice guy. He treated me to an omelet on this Easter morning, fresh eggs, cheese, etc. I awoke that morning, refreshed having slept the sleep of the exhausted, to the incredible smell of cooking eggs and bacon just outside of my tent. I opened my tent to find J. Paul set up there with all of his gadgets spread out. He greeted me and said; “I hope that you won’t mind being treated to an Easter breakfast from one who greatly respects the trek that you are undertaking”. Over a great breakfast in a snow covered lush forest with deep blue sky and sun above he said that he had figured out that I was hiking the PCT from the “the twenty miles today” comment the night before and the ice axe. 
Started off up San Jacinto but because of deep snow had to go around. But the snow was bad everywhere. I only went about 4 or 5 miles by lunch (“post-holing” a term describing the motion of stepping upon semi-solidified snow and as you put your full weight on it, it fails to support you and your foot plunges in. In deep snow like I encountered the day before this can stop your progress after just an hour. In one or two foot deep snow it is exhausting but passable and slows your progress immensely.) Met up with Ron (the “Chairman” due to the aluminum beach chair that he carried) after lunch, graduated from UCSB in 1975, while trying to find trail. He and I proceeded through snow for the rest of the day trying to get to Black Mountain Campground only 6 miles away. The trail led along a very steep ridge (Fuller Ridge) covered in snow and we kept losing the trail. It got late as we made our way out onto the ridge so we found a just a ledge practically with no snow just big enough for us to sleep on. High, cold winds plagued us all night. It was really a bummer place to camp. The trails around San Jacinto at this time of year are beautiful though if they’re not covered in snow. They were beautiful because of the snow also with brilliant red “snow flowers” poking out of the melting snow here and there.
