---
title: Near Sunrise Hwy
date: 1977-04-03
originalDate: Sunday, April 03, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/271563
trailJournalId: 271563
dayStart: Kitchen Creek
dayDestination: Near Sunrise Hwy
todayMiles: 14
tripMiles: 30.30
---
April 3, 1977Woke up to clear blue skies but boy was it cold! Ice on everything. Sleeping bag and tent work beautifully, except a little (condensation) wet. Have met 17 people including ourselves that are hiking part or all (Rod, Monte Dodge, Rick, Fred, the Unfortunates and Portland Trailblazers, who I made a comment to Elsa that their legs are so thin that they could never hike the whole way. One, Bill Jensen, was one of the few that did go all of the way. I figured out later what it really takes to go all of the way on the PCT. Big strong leg muscles aren’t even on the list). We seem to going at a faster pace then most want. Patches of snow are everywhere (as we climb up to Mt. Laguna) from noon on. Camping tonight a couple miles past Mt. Laguna, just off (the Sunrise) highway, bummer. Pine and oak forest are all around Mt. Laguna. Very sore and tired, 1st blister on big toe, nothing serious. Hiked with 3 guys (the Unfortunates?), two from Torrance. Had to dry out and warm up this morning so we didn’t get out early. No real wildlife today. Clear skies tonight but clouds in the distance. Mud (trail conditions) all day. Full moon.Early in the planning stages I found another student at UCSB who wanted to do the same thing and we planned to be partners, not wanting to risk hiking such a long distance alone and primarily for safety reasons but also for camaraderie. “Rick Toczek” seemed to be a compatible partner and we began planning equipment and food. However, just a couple months into planning, really before any major purchases had been made, Rick decided that his academics could suffer and didn’t think the risk was worth it and dropped out.   This left me in quite a fix. I already had huge doubts about the sufficiency of my skills and the perseverance of my drive (what if I wake up one morning three months into the hike and say “I just don’t want to walk anymore”?). Can I really hike the trail alone? Can I take the loneliness under stress in deep snow, freezing cold, horrendous mosquitoes, incessant rain? I was not confident in the answers to these questions and became increasingly desperate for a partner or partners. The Environmental Studies department of UCSB, headed by the famous environmentalist Roderick Nash, agreed to give me credit for hiking the trail if I would put together a paper and presentation before the hike on the history of the PCT and my plans, and then another paper and presentation on the experience when I returned. Following the history of the PCT presentation to a packed auditorium one night in the late Fall of 1976, two giggling girls came up to me and expressed an interest in hiking the trail with me. Neither one looked much like backpackers, let alone someone who could keep up with my long legged pace. Regardless they both indicated that they were serious. Over the next few weeks, one would drop out and Elsa, a short, stalky, tough girl proved that she could keep up with me and did seem to have what it would take (this judgment, of course being made from an innocent perspective with no real idea of “what it would take”). I was desperate, I agreed and Elsa and I began planning in earnest.
