---
title: Warner Springs
date: 1977-04-06
originalDate: Wednesday, April 06, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/271565
trailJournalId: 271565
dayStart: Scissor's Crossing
dayDestination: Warner Springs
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 58.30
---
April 6, 1977
A beautiful day in Warner Springs! Elsa’s friends came around noon and took her to L.A. Her knee is (badly) swollen and stiff. Not a nice situation. Rod, Monte, and Rick and Fred all arrived about 2:00. Rod’s girlfriend of 4 years is pregnant he learned by letter here. He will hitchhike back to Portland, WA (Oregon?). Monte will continue. Fred’s ankle is bothering him and Rick and I are fine. Swam in hot springs and pool in afternoon and saw of all people Mr. Terry (an assitant Principal at my highschool). Lazed around all evening, will sleep 5 in double room tonight spliting $30 a night charge. I’m feeling great and will try for Big Bear by April 15 with or without hiking companions. Called parents and Dad says he expected Elsa to not take it but I disagree. I feel it could of happened to any of us and not because she is female. Elsa asked “why me?” but I think in cases like this, that is not a fair question. It happens, not very often but everyone has their share of mishaps and fortunes. It depends on whether you can ride out the mishaps and take advantage of the fortunes. 
Losing Elsa was, at first, a great shock. We had bought all of our food together. If she was to quit and take her half away it would deeply limit my flexibility and supply. However, from almost the first day Elsa had struggled to keep up to my pace. Our packs fully loaded, probably weighing close to 65 or 70 pounds with food and water for the desert sections, put tremendous loads upon our legs, knees and ankles that we were just not used to. We started off carrying food to last 14 days and ice axes, gaitors and cold weather clothing. In hind sight, this was definitely a mistake for which Elsa paid. My conditioning, playing college basketball, clearly put me in an advantageous position. Yep, I admit that I probably walked her into the ground. Sorry, Elsa. Released from her slower pace and feeling stronger and stronger every day encouraged me that I could, with all of the other people on the trail to provide me with the safety factor, hike alone. One less fear to carry with me.
