---
title: Anza
date: 1977-04-07
originalDate: Thursday, April 07, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/271566
trailJournalId: 271566
dayStart: Warner Springs
dayDestination: Anza
todayMiles: 32
tripMiles: 90.30
---
April 7, 1977
Last night someone commented how similar this is to the military when all five of us were crammed into one room. We figured we had over $2,000 worth of equipment in that one room. It looked like a backpacking store with everyone reorganizing. Warner Springs has since gained a reputation as a place where all things in your backpack are re-considered as to the necessity versus weight and much is discarded here, a kind of shake down point. It’s strange how similar this is to the military. Everyone is in it individually since you have to carry your own stuff and make all your plans and decisions all by yourself yet on the other hand we all feel a strong sense of camaradship. We’ve all been thru the same B.S. in planning this whole ordeal and we are all doing this ordeal, suffering the same pains, sharing the same problems and also having a great time. Anyway, onto today;
Well, after talking about plans last night Rick and Fred and Monte wanted to take 2 ½ days to get ot Anza, 31.6 miles north of Warner Springs, because of Fred’s bad ankle. But I don’t want to go that slow so I decided I’d get up early and go the 17.1 miles to Twin Lakes. I got up early because I had never hiked 17 miles in one day before and thought that it might take me all day. Well, as usual I got carried away when I got up at a quarter 6 I felt so damn good that I started off at a very fast pace since I didn’t have anyone holding me back and also a days rest behind me. However, by the time it was noon I was at Twin Lakes! I was still feeling gung ho and it wasn’t too hot so I decided to go forAnza only 13.5 miles distant. Since there is no water between it was either all or nothing. Well, I made it but ony barely. I walked straight from sun-up to sun-down, gave myself a blister but beside that I’m just dead beat. It saved me a day proved I’m in shape. Anyhow I’ve never hiked anywhere close to 32 miles in one day before. The scenery around here is all desert so I don’t mind passing it up so quick. Tomorrow I’m going to get up at will and check out of Post Office and maybe pick up a few things at the hardware store. Where am I now? (you ask?) In a little yard by the school house whick is designated for camping by PCT’ers by the town folk here. A surprize as most of the towns along the PCT had barely begun to recognize the PCT and hikers and the business and good nature of these people. I’m the only one here right now, with a 6 pack and a full stomach. Last night we found the adjoining room connecting door open and no one in it so we actually had two rooms, four beds. Good night, I’m bushed.
