---
title: Kitchen Creek
date: 1977-04-02
originalDate: Saturday, April 02, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/271562
trailJournalId: 271562
dayStart: Campo
dayDestination: Kitchen Creek
todayMiles: 16.30
tripMiles: 16.30
---
First day, left Newport at 5:00 AM and drove through rain to border by my parents. Raining as we (Elsa Rosencrantz and I) left at 8:00. Field full of tires at start. Roads and rain all of the way to Yellow Rose Springs. Lunch at Cameron Fire Station. 16 miles in all today with plenty of sunlight to spare. Elsa lagged a bit but not bad. Both of our feet hurt. Saw a roadrunner, jackrabbits and squirrels and a few wild cows(?). My attitude is good tho wet and cold. Tent and sleeping bag are good. We met and/or passed 12 people today, 8 people apparently left yesterday, plenty before that, all on P.C.T.. That first day . . . A simple barbed wire fence denoted the international border between the United States of America and Mexico. A rundown building, that once served as a cattle transfer station between the two countries sits just a few yards across the border in Mexico. A single PCT sign, small, is nailed to a wood post. Another home-made white PCT sign, made by Jerry Smith after his 1976 thru-hike is the major signage indicating the southern terminus. This is now about a mile east from the current southern terminus. Standing at the border, looking down across the mist shrouded mountains and valleys east of San Diego, trying to expand your imagination down the trail, across the hills, through the deserts, over the passes to the adventure, the fears, the trials, the challenges that lie ahead. But for all of the planning and all of the reading and all of the talking to those that have gone before, the imagination totally fails to even come close to that which I now have in my mind. Oh, and the butterflies! They are so huge! No, no not the ones in the fields, no. The ONES IN MY STOMACH!!!
