---
title: Cabezon
date: 1977-04-11
originalDate: Monday, April 11, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292586
trailJournalId: 292586
dayStart: Fuller Ridge
dayDestination: Cabezon
todayMiles: 13.70
tripMiles: 134
---
We woke up this morning to everything frozen, as recently usual, and started off thru the snow again. Half of the day was in pure snow. Fuller Ridge, on the north side of Mt. San Jacinto, is a narrow ridge coming right off of the peak and is in near total shadow of the peak for most of the day well into late spring. As such, the snow lingers there and becomes treacherous even late in spring as the freeze-thaw forms ice. This makes an ice axe necessary on this mostly desert section of the PCT sometimes into May. Ron is still with me and seems like a real nice guy. We came down off of the ridge and had lunch at the Black Mountain Campground and then started down this valley to Hurley Flats (just above Cabazon on the 10 freeway, 6,200 feet below!). Note that it took us all morning to go less than 5 miles. Well, the guidebook says the trail is hard to stay on but I think actually there was no trail! It took me over three hours to get down thru all of the brush and bullshit (6,200 feet in 3 hours!). It was just pure HELL. 
A bit of better description is required here to convey the conditions. This extremely steep slope, clearly visible from the 10 freeway at Cabazon just before the turnoff to Palm Springs, sustained a fire a year or two before. As such I dropped down a large boulder field filled with the bare, blackened skeletons of first pine, then scrub oak and manzanita and then mesquite at the lower elevations. Dodging these black widow-like fingers, listening intently for the sounds of a pissed-off rattlesnake and trying to focus with the rest of my consciousness upon landing each hop and jump down with perfect balance, despite the shifting mass on my back, so as not to fall, twist an ankle or slip on gravel. 
Ron and I split up coming down disagreeing on whether to take a ridge or a valley down the slope which was a mistake cause I’m sitting here writing this and still waiting for him to come out of this canyon. It’s been 30 minutes since I got down. It turns out, four hours later sitting here in a hotel room in Cabazon, that Ron got down before I did but he came down a different canyon. We both agree it’s a wonder that we are alive! We hear now that everybody says that and that no one can find the trail. I also found out that this is the canyon that the guy died in, on the PCT, a few years ago that they found his remains last year. Nice, real nice. It’s one of those things you hesitate before laughing at when thinking back to it. It really teaches humility. 
The story that was told by the motel owner was that a PCT hiker in 1974 or 1975 had been dropping down the same canyon that I did, by himself and had slipped and fell and broke his hipbone. He couldn’t get to his feet because of the pain, but could see people walking around several thousand feet below at the Twin Pines Guest Ranch. He yelled and even built a small fire in an attempt to get their attention, but to no avail. He had food and water in his pack and so he laid there hoping someone would come looking for him or stumble across him. He wrote in his journal about these things for several days. His remains were found with his backpack and journal in 1976 by a PCT hiker coming down the same canyon. Now, checking the Riverside Mountain Search and Rescue website, that has events listed going back to the 1960’s, doesn’t show anything like this. However, a young man died of a fall in that canyon who had climbed up from below. His body was not found for a few days. So I’m not really sure if the story we were told was just a long yarn or truth.
We want to write a letter to the San Jacinto Wilderness management to complain. Anyway, after relaxing, taking a hot shower and getting a good meal, I feel GREAT! The last two days have really been a test and I know that I’ve passed. 
Met “Stuart”, legendary fast hiker is laid up here in Cabazon with bad knees and a bad ankle. No one ever heard from or of him again.
