---
title: Wrightwood
date: 1977-04-19
originalDate: Tuesday, April 19, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292596
trailJournalId: 292596
dayStart: Silverwood Reservoir
dayDestination: Wrightwood
todayMiles: 21
tripMiles: 261
---
It’s strange because for about the last week I’ve felt badly in the morning and good in the evening, just the reverse from the beginning. I think that at this point, a little more than two weeks into it, my hiking muscles were really beginning to harden, so that in the morning I would wake up a bit stiff, but by the end of the day everything had loosened up, wasn’t getting tired or exhausted due to the constant conditioning and into that “runner’s high” state. I got to Interstate 15 early and began the long ascent up Lone Pine Valley through which the San Andreas fault runs. I had already crossed the San Andreas fault between San Jacinto and Big Bear and would again cross it heading out into the Mojave from Acton. Another day over 20 miles but tomorrow I’ll probably take it easy. I saw about a four foot ratteless rattler today, I almost stepped on him but he seemed as surprised at me as I was of him so we both went our own ways. Actually, I had just crossed some railroad tracks when over my shoulder I heard some huffing and puffing coming up the track. As I walked away from the track I looked over my shoulder to see two men, dressed in Railroad Engineer’s clothing, on a push-pull cart coming up the track. I waved to them and sensed something underfoot at the same time. I looked around just in time to leap over the rattlesnake, which I would have certainly stepped on if I hadn’t turned around that second. Climbed back up into pine country around Wrightwood. I thought this town was a deserty place but not so. Got a shower and a dormitory room for the night for just $5. Blisters are bad, my feet are killing me so I’ll probably hike only five miles tomorrow to a nice campground. The blisters on the balls of my feet had returned. This time they formed and popped and reformed below the first ones. By the way, yesterday I found a newly dead squirrel next to a road so I took his big, bushy tail. It’s real beautiful, might go to Lori for her 21st B-day. What a warped idea that one was! I seem to be spending ungodly amounts of money on food. GORP purchase from Elsa had better come soon. According to register Lee Carter (Bay City Bombers, Co-UCSB’er) is only a day or two ahead of me. I will try to catch him before the Sierras. Every Post Office has a PCT register where you leave name and address and anything you want to say. It’s a good way to leave message for people behind you. In this one-way march in order to communicate with anyone ahead of you on the trail you have to send mail ahead to their attention at the next re-supply Post Office.
