---
title: Buckhorn Springs Campground
date: 1977-04-21
originalDate: Thursday, April 21, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292599
trailJournalId: 292599
dayStart: San Gabriel mountains
dayDestination: Buckhorn Springs Campground
todayMiles: 22
tripMiles: 293
---
I woke feeling refreshed and took off pretty early. I surprised the hell out of a coyote in “my” campground as I was leaving. I guess he didn’t realize I was around. How he couldn’t I cannot imagine as I must have stunk with days of sweat, dust and mosquito repellent accumulating. My feet feel much better and I did about 14 miles before lunch. I walked almost all day on the Angeles Crest Highway to avoid deep lingering snow covering Mt. Baden Powell, elevation and to save my feet from the up and down. I found quite a few things along the road, such as; eight cans of beer(!), which I’m enjoying tonight, a brand new visor, a ski cap and a pack of gum! Not a bad haul, I’d say. The haul was left, apparently, in the snow of ski lift lines and forgotten, or melted out of sight. When I came by the snow was just about gone at the highway level with a few deep banks here and there. I ended up wearing the visor for almost the rest of the way as I had lost a wide brimmed straw hat at Cajon Pass where I crossed I-15.   While resting along the highway this afternoon a coyote (another one!) came strolling down the road, so I froze and he nearly missed me but he stopped right across the street from me, eyed me closely and sniffed a little and then decided I wasn’t worth closer inspection. Later, walking almost silently along, I came around a bend to find a bobcat, who reacted like I did, frightened, and, boy, could he run! Another 20+ miler today. Tonight I’m at Buckhorn Springs campground with a lovely stream passing right next to me and keeping my beer nice and ice cold! I called Lynn (my sister) from a ranger station that I passed and she said that they’d try to meet me in Acton on Saturday afternoon. I should make it easy.
