---
title: Big Bear City
date: 1977-04-14
originalDate: Thursday, April 14, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292589
trailJournalId: 292589
dayStart: Onyx Pass
dayDestination: Big Bear City
todayMiles: 21
tripMiles: 188
---
Last night the wind blew like crazy. I thought it was going to blow my tent down, but it held up real well. Ate myself silly last night and just konked out. Got up real early this morning and began my way to Big Bear. Met Ron again at lunch on Highway 38. He got totally lost and hitchhiked to where I met him. We then walked the 15 miles into Big Bear. 21 miles total for me today. Got my mail and packages at the Post Office. Elsa will not be rejoining me as she has acute tendonitis of the knee. Bummer. However, I believe I realized by that point that Elsa would not have weathered the last few high mileage, high altitude change and intense condition days. I’m staying at a park in Big Bear City where you’re not supposed to camp but the park supervisors,, Jim and Jay, are really nice and say it’s okay, since I’m on the PCT. I’m going to need more food than I got in the food drop, so I will try to buy some off of Elsa, mainly GORP. 
My GORP consisted of M&Ms, peanuts, cashews, bits of dried fig, apricots, pears and raisins. Before the hike, I bought all of the ingredients in bulk and poured them all into a large box lined with plastic. I then reached in with my hand and stirred and mixed the entire 5+ month’s supply for two. Then I filled gallon sized ziplock bags and sealed them. Into each of my 15 boxes went a gallon bag. My GORP was my main breakfast and mid-day high-energy snack food for the entire hike. Many mornings, too cold, or tired or lazy, I would just make a cup of hot cocoa and eat a cup or so of GORP for breakfast. One of only two foods that I never grew tired of. 
I think that I’ll spend two days here, meet Rick and then continue on. Rick, my original potential hiking partner who had dropped out for academic reasons, had arranged to meet me at Big Bear on April 15th and hike with me for a week or so. 
I hitchhiked with Ron into Big Bear Lake to get some supplies and stuff. Ron will leave this afternoon and me? Well, I’m just sittin’ in the sun, writing and taking it as slow as possible. Writing letters too. Nothing much to say today. It is a really beautiful day and the people here in Big Bear are really nice.
