---
title: Blue Jay
date: 1977-04-17
originalDate: Sunday, April 17, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292594
trailJournalId: 292594
dayStart: Big Pine Flats
dayDestination: Blue Jay
todayMiles: 15
tripMiles: 218
---
I went through three moods today. We started off and hiked three miles the wrong way and so I was pretty mad at myself cause it seems I get lost or go the wrong way, at least once, every day. Because I was in a bad mood I started thinking about the hike and really having second thoughts, but then, I got onto Hook Creek Dr. leading to Cedar Glen and it was really neat so my attitude totally reversed itself. Then later it was starting to get late afternoon and as usual I’m plenty tired and I happen to be right smack in the middle of Arrowhead community and have no where to camp. It put me back into a state of indecision. But now here I am in a beautiful little camp ground around Bluejay and I have it all to myself. Tall Redwoods, a pleasant little stream, very peaceful. Oh, by the way, my Achilles tendon feels fine today. Thank you, Mom and Dad for the great genetics! Boy, do I need some good looking female company. A typical young man, only 3 things on his mind; I’m hungry, I’m horny, I’m thirsty. I believe that the stress of the hard days and being abandoned by Rick and worrying about food supply caused my mood swings. This day was the first of only a few days on the trail where I had second thoughts, doubts of my resolve to see this through, or thoughts of quitting.
