---
title: Silverwood Reservoir
date: 1977-04-18
originalDate: Monday, April 18, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292595
trailJournalId: 292595
dayStart: Blue Jay
dayDestination: Silverwood Reservoir
todayMiles: 22
tripMiles: 240
---
Today I got up real early deciding to go to Wrightwood in two days (45 miles) but going out of Bluejay, which by the way has the largest population of bluejays I have ever seen, I, as usual, took a wrong turn and ended up doing a nice seven mile tour of Arrowhead’s north shore area. Anyhow, I finally got on the right track and proceeded a good 15 to 18 miles before my feet gave out around Silverwood Reservoir. I decided to camp at a fire station that appears to be uninhabited and has water. When I finished dinner a few hours later there was still plenty of sun, so, now feeling fully revived, I decided to hike on in this beautiful evening. I ended up camping in a drainage ditch alongside the road a good seven or eight miles further along. I guess that I ended up doing another 30 or more miler, even though I did hike in the dark. Somewhere between 29 and 33 miles I estimate! Walking around Arrowhead was mostly on asphalt roads and very hard on the feet. No wonder my feet were complaining at Silverwood Reservoir. A little lake called “Gregory” looked very nice, where I stopped for lunch. Getting back down to the desert again, I will probably change my daily schedule from here to the Sierra’s so that I hike only in the mornings and evenings.Whenever the wind blows through the pines it sends a shiver down my spine and makes me feel totally alone no matter who I’m with. I think it might be an instinct or memory passed down through the ancestry from a time when man had no shelter from that wind that whispers and roars.
