---
title: Intro
date: 1977-04-01
originalDate: Friday, April 01, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292593
trailJournalId: 292593
dayStart: 
dayDestination: 
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 0
---
I had planned for over a year to hike this trail after hearing about it from a friend, Mike Ross, who I had met in my dormitory as a freshman at the University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB) in 1976. He had hiked the PCT in 1975 and one night in his room, sitting around drinking beer and talking about hobbies he mentioned his hike to me. I immediately became completely enthralled with the idea and did not go to sleep that night thinking about how to arrange my responsibilities in order to do this. Thank you, Mike Ross.My parents, Merle and Scott Hummel, had grown up in the conservative world of the Depression and World War II. When I asked them if they would provide logistical support for this adventure they expressed absolute opposition to my taking off any time from college for such a “foolhardy lark”. My Dad and I argued about it every time that I came back home to visit on holidays. After several months of arguments my brother-in-law, David Collins, convinced my Dad that “Greg is going to do this whether you support him or not, and if not then he and you will likely regret it forever forth”.   This seemed to break my parents reluctance to accept the decision I had made. They then sat me down one night and explained that, though they didn’t like the idea, they would provide any support to me that I required. This was a major threshold for me as I had to have complete trust in the person/s that would stock and send the supply boxes to me at various points, as in some cases my survival might depend upon them. Thank you, Mom and Dad.I planned to take the Spring quarter off from school to combine with the summer break in order to allocate the prerequisite five to six months to complete a full through hike of the entire 2,500 (2,600? 2,650?) miles. From the border with Mexico across the entire length of California; running up the Coast Ranges, through the San Bernardino and San Gabriel Mountains, across the Mojave Desert, running up the full length of the magnificent Sierra Nevada Mountains, and into “volcano country” hopping from volcano to volcano, Lassen to Shasta into Oregon and McLaughlin to Thielsen to Crater Lake to the Three Sisters to Three Fingered Jack to Mt. Jefferson to Mt. Hood into Washington across the Columbia River to Mt. Adams to Mt. Rainier and into the North Cascades and Mt. Baker and then that wilderness that borders with British Columbia and the border with Canada. The discrepancy with mileage comes from the yet-to-be-completed status of the PCT at the time that I hiked it. The trail consisted of the Oregon Skyline Trail and the Washington Timberline Trail and the John Muir Trail in California. However, without large sections in California being complete, the actual mileage that a person walked depended on which “temporary route” he chose from the many offered and available at various points. I believe that I probably walked close to 2,538 miles. The completed trail now has been fairly accurately measured to approximately 2,650 miles. Then, I often went straight down a slope, canyon or valley, when now, the trail switchbacks down and then back up the same or similar routes but now with, of course, greater mileage.
