---
title: Upper Tyndall Creek Snow Survey Cabin
date: 1977-05-16
originalDate: Monday, May 16, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292627
trailJournalId: 292627
dayStart: Whitney Creek
dayDestination: Upper Tyndall Creek Snow Survey Cabin
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 481
---
When I got up the clouds had sparsely covered the sky and it was lightly snowing. Probably the coldest day of the hike so far. It was so cold that night that I slept with all of my clothes on in my bag and was still cold. When I woke up my quart water bottle was nearly frozen solid! It wasn’t snowing that hard and the wind wasn’t blowing but a breeze carried a death cold throughout the day. I got to Tyndall Creek about 10 miles pretty early in the afternoon, despite Arctic conditions and I mean Arctic. Hiked right by Mt. Whitney today without ever seeing it due to snow.   I never even saw Forester Pass and I’m within 5 miles of it. The Snow Survey Cabin here was, let’s say, able to be gotten into. Food galore and an old cast iron stove and it works beautiful. So tonight I sleep in a bunk on a mattress in the warmth of this cozy little cabin. Tomorrow I go over Forester and then on to Kearsarge Lakes.   I hope the weather clears. It’s snowing still, at sun down. (The snow survey cabin at Upper Tyndall Creek is still in operation. The door had been previously, I swear, kicked in by someone and then tied shut from the outside. All I had to do to get in was to untie the door. Inside was a sign requesting that if you took supplies that you should report this to the National Forest Service so that a ranger coming to check the station wouldn’t get here counting on supplies that had been used. When in Independence later I sent a post card to the NFS and told them that I had used a few items and some wood in the stove and could not be sure how much the earlier intruder had used.)(6th day without seeing anyone!)
