---
title: Lancaster
date: 1977-04-25
originalDate: Monday, April 25, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292602
trailJournalId: 292602
dayStart: Acton
dayDestination: Lancaster
todayMiles: 21
tripMiles: 349
---
I’m sitting behind a gas station on the outskirts of Lancaster in the shade of a beautiful pine having just finished lunch and proceeding to relax through the heat of the day and hike on this evening and night if I feel so inclined. Dave drove me back out to Acton around 6:00 and then went on to work. They really gave me a nice break. It was actually pretty cold starting off but it sure got hot fast. Fortunately there is a breeze blowing. I’m following Highway 138, the Sierra Highway, through Palmdale and Lancaster today and into Mojave tomorrow. I’ll probably be in Weldon by Saturday the 30th. That will put me quite a bit ahead of schedule.   My schedule; I worked out an entire schedule for the hike based upon the guide books (First Edition by Thomas Winnett) mileages between points, likely weather conditions and altitude changes. The desert is a drag. The breeze turned into a gale this evening at times even making it hard to walk. I hiked until an hour past sundown and found a burned out house to protect me from the wind. The lights of Lancaster and Palmdale are very seeable as are the lights of Rosamond ahead. Half a moon tonight and plenty of light. I saw a shooting star explode over my head tonight. The sky was so clear that night that I could see stars right on the horizon despite the small desert city’s lights and the half moon. The jet airplanes coming across from the east into Los Angeles curved with the curvature of the earth, so far was the path that I could see them take. The shooting star began at the horizon and climbed all of the way to the zenith, gaining in intensity as it went, and then exploded brilliantly as it reached the zenith. I was to find out later that many PCT’ers witnessed the same event that night, so many of us spread from the San Gabriel Mountains across the Mojave desert, through the Tehachapi Mountains and to the foot of the Sierras, all gazing heavenward at the same moment in time.
