---
title: Wilmer Lake
date: 1977-06-05
originalDate: Sunday, June 05, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292650
trailJournalId: 292650
dayStart: Benson Lake
dayDestination: Wilmer Lake
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 529
---
Got to Seavey Pass before 9:00 and then started down a long (east-west oriented) canyon. Thought we had a cake walk for four miles but the trail followed the snow covered side (north-facing side) of the canyon so we decided to make a “B” line for a pass over the ridge that we had to go over (but a mile or so further down the canyon). But things didn’t quite work out cause we were forced higher and faster than we wanted. The end result was that we went a few mile, a hell of a lot elevation and a few hours out of the way by an incredible lake, unnamed and untrammeled which we had to bushwack around to get back to the trail. (As Jay and I worked our way down to this gorgeous lake situated in a lovely valley with forest around part of the lake and soaring peaks framing the eastern sky, a flock of geese flew off. As we walked around this lake no sign of man was visible anywhere; no trail, no old fire rings, no liter, nothing.) The “shortcut” really tired us out so we barely made Wilmer Lake before we collapsed and let the mosquitoes attack. The clouds threatened all dis’avo & then finally dropped on us late in the day. Just a we approached Wilmer Lake we spotted a big, beautiful and brown bear on the trail, he turned and ran on sight of us.    While cooking dinner tonight a little deer walked into camp within just a few yards of us without even the slightest inhibition.
