---
title: Long Canyon Creek
date: 1977-05-09
originalDate: Monday, May 09, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292620
trailJournalId: 292620
dayStart: Long Canyon Creek
dayDestination: Long Canyon Creek
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 458
---
I woke up last night to go to the bathroom and found it quite difficult to light a match. It turns out that the snow had nearly sealed the tent and thus I was quite low on oxygen. Good thing I woke up. In the morning I dug myself out of two feet of snow and proceeded, in all my waterproof gear, to unbury the tent. I went for two walks, one up the trail and one back down the trail, each about a ½ mile. For exercise and to see if anyone is camped near me. No such luck. I’ve decided that tomorrow snow or no snow I must hike back to Casa Vieja Ranger Station first to see if they will take me into a town to get food, as I am short since laying in this tent two days. If no one is there then I’ll have to go another 3 miles to the work site and see if they will take me or re-supply me. I wrote some letters, thought about a lot of things and fashioned a cow’s tooth that I found into a zipper pull. It only snowed about 2 inches today so far but the wind is blowing and it’s very CCOOLLD!! I’ve learned a few rules about living in a tent for a prolonged period of time; 1. Be exceptionally aware and careful whenever working with fire or water in any way. 2. Everything in it place and a place for everything or you won’t be able to live in your tent very long. I spilled 2 cups of water but I was able to control it fortunately.(I awoke this night to the kind of darkness that exists only in very deep caves; so dark that I could not see my hand in front of my face. My full bladder had brought me awake and was demanding immediate relief. I had a pack of matches that I knew was dry and I struck a match in an attempt to light a candle, so that I could find the zipper door and keep from tipping over my stove. My flashlight battery was nearly dead and I was preserving the small amount of energy left for emergencies. The match didn’t light but just fizzled. The next one did the same thing. My bladder said “NOW!” I pulled out the flashlight and shone it on the zipper to the door. As I grabbed the zipper I noticed that my fingernails were blue! I quickly opened the door and snow flooded my tent. So much snow had fallen since nightfall that it had sealed completely over my tent. As the realization hit me that I could have suffocated, my adrenalin flooded my veins and I grabbed my ice axe and began clearing the snow away from my tent, down to the earth, for several feet outwards. After completing this I then felt my bladder again and finally gave it the rest and respect that it so beautifully had earned!   I have never since complained about my full bladder in inopportune times. See June 1, 1977 for an incredible, almost unbelievable, independent account of this event.)
