---
title: Rock Creek
date: 1977-05-14
originalDate: Saturday, May 14, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292625
trailJournalId: 292625
dayStart: North Templeton Meadow
dayDestination: Rock Creek
todayMiles: 17
tripMiles: 475
---
The weather is great! The snow persisted under foot all day though it is melting fast. For the last week tracks in the snow have been abundant from mouse to rabbits to coyote. The first half of the day was really good. Had lunch just below Siberian Pass. The snow never got deeper than 6 inches so going was easier. Got over the pass and found that the melting snow had wiped out all footprints and yet deep enough to hide the trail across Siberian Outpost. Never found the trail but found an old unmaintained one went to the same place. Sun reflecting off snow burnt the hell out of my face. Hard traveling all the way to Rock Creek. When I finally got there while stooping by a stream for water I lost my balance and cut my hand, soaked my shorts (!) and discovered my guide book missing. Whenever I sit down to rest I always look back when I leave to make sure I’ve left nothing . Well, a mile before and a 1,000 feet up I took a rest and cause I was so tired I set my book down and forgot to look back. I went a ¼ mile further to Rock Creek Ranger Station, dropped my pack, aided my hand and then began the long climb back to my book. I could have kicked myself. I walked 17 miles total today and at 10,000 feet or better. I’m so tired I just quickly cooked some soup and went to sleep.I remember seeing a great looking, very pyramidal peak, off to the west and thought that it would offer a great view of this area. The peak was completely shrouded in snow and clouds and had a great mystical look to it. It was another very clear, very cold night!
