---
title: Berkeley
date: 1977-05-31
originalDate: Tuesday, May 31, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292645
trailJournalId: 292645
dayStart: Berkeley
dayDestination: Berkeley
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 507
---
Called Eddie Bauer and then F & I went to their store in S.F. and very nicely, quickly, and with no hassle they fully refunded my money (for my old, falling apart pack), $55. We then went to Mandy’s work and I got to meet the president of North Face (Hap Klopp). We talked awhile about the hike and backpacks and I checked out some they had there at the factory outlet. (This scene is now a rarity in the U.S.; a mid-sized brick building, a loading dock, boxes stacked with incoming parts and supplies, a series of tables laid out, sewing machines, assembly line, supply parts in boxes lining one wall, a dozen or more people busily working to put together the packs and frames and gear that North Face sold at that time. “Made in the U.S.A.”) They did have a full line of packs so we went to the Berkeley store and there I decided on a Kelty Tioga, at $66 with Mandy’s 30% discount. I can’t believe it; I got two good years of use out of my Eddie Bauer pack free and then with just $11 more I get a brand new, top of the line pack! It is a lot bigger than my old pack and is just perfect. (I recalled Hap telling me that in exchange for letting him pick my brain for a couple hours he would mark down as a “second” any pack in the store and then add on Mandy’s employee discount. Mandy was Hap’s assistant at the North Face. “Mandy Dailey” of course, went on to marry Fred, becoming “Mandy Hummel”.) Jay called this morning and he’s got 2 weeks off so he’s going to fly into S.F. tomorrow morning and will join me from Toulumne Meadows to Sth Lake Tahoe. A Hummel brother reunion! Look out world! I stupidly forgot to empty one of the pockets on my pack so my camera, film, mosquito net, etc. are at Eddie Bauer’s. We’ll get them tomorrow when we go for Jay.
