---
title: Big Meadow
date: 1977-05-02
originalDate: Monday, May 02, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292613
trailJournalId: 292613
dayStart: Weldon
dayDestination: Big Meadow
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 445
---
(My knowledge of the Sierras came from backpacking there first with the Boy Scouts on several 7 to 10 day hikes starting at the age of 13 or 14 and then later, in high school with friends and brothers. I had climbed a nearly 13,000 foot peak; Banner, with my brother and I had a good understanding of the conditions there, but mostly from a summer perspective. I had never used an ice axe, crampons or snowshoes before and had no real experience with snow and ice at all. The PCT goes over several passes above 10,000 feet, the highest; Forester Pass at 13,200 feet, the trail’s highest point. I had significant worries about getting over it this early in the year, regardless of how light the winter had been. Snow can fall on the High Sierra as late in the year as June and as early as September in the fall. An errant late snowstorm could make the situation dangerous if a hiker were caught at high altitude without the proper equipment.)
I left KOA (campground) early with the Trailblazers, Bill and Bob and passed the Bay City Bombers (Lee Carter) on our way up Fay Ranch Rd. I split up from the Trailblazers and got lost again and then rejoined them at lunch. We then proceeded to climb abut 3500 feet in about a mile and a half. By then my heels were killing me and I knew I had some brand new blisters. Just as my others are disappearing. Shit. We hiked on to Long Meadow where we are camped tonight. We saw bear prints and found a note from P.C.T.ers, in fact the Backtrackers that said they had seen bears and that it might be a good time to start tying up the food at night.
(This climb into the Sierra from Weldon is no longer on the PCT yet go through some of the prettiest areas in the southern Sierra. Climbing 3,500 feet in a mile and a half with packs full of food for ten plus days and ice axe and instep crampons and extra wool socks and wool long johns made for one of THE toughest days on the trail.)
A letter home; Hi, the desert was pretty dull & dry with a little green. There were some beautiful little wild flowers tho. It was pretty hot all the way through but we were blessed with cool breezes in the morning that gradually grew into strong gusty winds every afternoon. I didn’t see a single rattler, although I have seen them earlier. I met up with a bunch (9) of new P.C.T.ers and they were really ince. It’s like making instant friends. We had a large dinner and they gave me a lot of extra food they didn’t have to nor want to carry. I will probably take my time thru the Sierras and really enjoy them. I will climb Whitney, 14,494’ feet and try to climb Ritter Peak, 13,156’ near Mammoth (conditions did not allow either). The new boots feel great, the pack feels real heavy and my feet are on the upswing. Please send 2 batteries that are with my supplies to Tuolumne. You’re doing a great job and don’t worry about sending too much munchies as I can always eat ‘em if I don’t want to carry them! Love, Greg. (Sent May 2, 1977 from Weldon P.O.)
