---
title: North Templeton Meadow
date: 1977-05-13
originalDate: Friday, May 13, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292624
trailJournalId: 292624
dayStart: Long Canyon Meadow
dayDestination: North Templeton Meadow
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 458
---
When the sun came up and as it is going down, the skies are blue. But in between it snowed like a blizzard. I trudged thru snow almost all the way to Tunnel Ranger Station, although I did see my first patches of bare ground in a week. According to the register here, just about everyone who was in Weldon when I was came thru here two to six days ago. It appears they were here during the 3 day blizzard. When it snows it doesn’t just snow, it snows in different types. During the 3 day blizzard it snowed pure powder. Since then it has snowed everything from powder to flakes to almost hail. I went thru Templeton meadows today entirely covered in snow yet the largest meadow I think I’ve ever seen. Since it was covered in snow the trail was not to be seen as all blazes are on trees and there was an acute shortage in this meadow. I looked at my map and took a guess which direction to go and low and behold I guessed right! In an area the size of about 100 foot ball fields I’d say I was pretty lucky. Siberian Pass tomorrow and I sure hope the weather is good.(It turns out that several people did stay at Tunnel Ranger Station during the first part of this storm. One group went out and down into the Kern River gorge and were rescued by a search and rescue team out of Kernville.)(As I remember this meadow, I ventured out into the middle of this vast expanse of pure white and found by shear luck the top of the sign at a trail junction in the middle. From this trail junction, which I could see on my map, I took a bearing to find the one canyon, out of seven or so, that the PCT took to go up to Siberian Pass. In my recollections, this was the ONLY time that I used my compass to find my way!)(This night I camped on stamped down snow. As I came into camp and stamped down the snow, the wind was blowing and the temperature was dropping faster than I was counting on. My fingers got so cold while I was preparing the area that when I put my down jacket on, the muscles in my fingers would not work to grasp the zipper! I tried and tried and simply could not make my thumb and first finger pinch with enough strength to pull the zipper up. So I ran around in circles for a few minutes with my fingers in my armpits to warm them up and this worked to restore their strength, zip up my jacket, set up my tent and get something warm cooking.)
