---
title: South of Vidette Meadows
date: 1977-05-17
originalDate: Tuesday, May 17, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292628
trailJournalId: 292628
dayStart: Upper Tyndall Creek Snow Survey Cabin
dayDestination: South of Vidette Meadows
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 481
---
The morning was perfect except it was only 12 degrees F outside according to a thermometer at the cabin. The mountains looked beautiful and I attacked them with vigor in my heart on what I knew to be my hardest day. The ascent to the base of the “wall” wasn’t too terrible except for 2 feet of snow and temperature changes from freezing to hot because of clouds and wind. As I go nearer to the “wall” the clouds started getting thicker and more “wet” looking and so as I began my slow trudge up the “wall” it began to snow. I got all upset and excited and then it stopped. The “wall” was pretty precarious because the switchbacks are actually blasted out of the steep rock and then there was 2 to 3 feet of snow sitting on them. All of my special equipment I used and came in handy; Snow glasses, gaitors, rain pants, rain parka, ice axe, crampons, and me! I wish I could have gotten a picture of me.   At the top of the “wall” the trail crosses a chute that happened to be covered in ice, so I had to cut , with my ice axe, footsteps across the nearly 90 degree face of this chute with a 60 lb. pack on my back. Harry to say the least. Then at the very top the snow from the north side had blown up a wall probably 10 to 15 feet vertical with the chute dropping off below it. There was no other choice but start climbing sinking ice axe, boots, hands, teeth and everything else to go up this. I’m amazed I made it, after slipping a few times and giving myself a heart attack, but I DID IT! I planned to have lunch on the pass (13,200 feet) but the clouds had graduated to a full scale storm and it began to snow again. So down I dropped, no trail visible at all, just step by step, snow up to my crotch every step going almost straight down. By the time I reached timber line again the snow was blinding, the wind was freezing and I had been trudging in non less than 2 feet of snow for about 6 hours straight. Needless to say, thank the Great Backpacker in the Sky I’m alive, and I did not make Kearsarge Lakes. I was supposed to pass three lakes today, all good fishing, but all I saw was 3 big white flat patches. Including one that I stopped on, on the south side of Forester Pass, to see which way to go, only realizing that I was standing in the middle of a frozen lake, of course with a 60 lb. pack on! I quickly moved off, not trusting the ice. It appears someone went over Forester Pass a couple of days ago but I doubt if all the PCT’ers ahead of me have since many did not have the equipment. (The Bay City Bombers were the ones that went over a few days ahead of me. The switchbacks coming up the south side of the Pass were full of snow so that closer to the wall side of the cut the snow was three or more feet deep, while closer to the edge of the cut, with a sizeable vertical potential fall there, had hardly any snow. So traversing this was a compromise; somewhere in the middle. When I reached the chute I cut the footsteps across to three short switchbacks in ice-covered rock on the other side. My crampons kept me on the ice covered switchbacks and I was able to get a bit higher against the vertical cornice. The wind coming from the north side was making a snow plume through the pass over my head and I was afraid that when I climbed the vertical ice that I might be pealed back by the wind and fall down the chute. I dropped my pack on a secure spot and tied one end of a rope to the frame and the other to my belt, so that I could climb the vertical ice without the pack and then haul it over once I was over the top. This worked and I rolled over the pass when I reached the top of the vertical ice to find that there was just a thin veneer of snow over solid, perfectly clear ice. Through the clear ice I could see the sign that is at the pass, a foot or more below the surface of the ice! It the raging storm on the north side of the pass I swore that I heard motorcycles, helicopters, people yelling, attributing it all to my imagination in the deafening roar of the storm.)I’m just south of Vidette Meadows and the snow is really coming down. I hope I don’t get snowed in again. Owens Valley is 12 miles and 3,000 feet away so I’ll try for Independence tomorrow if the weather clears. The hardest day did indeed prove to be the hardest. Maybe not as physically exhausting as my 32 miler but definitely mentally draining. I’m glad it’s past, the rest is downhill to Canada since Forester Pass is the high point on the entire PCT.
