---
title: Cantil
date: 1977-04-27
originalDate: Wednesday, April 27, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292605
trailJournalId: 292605
dayStart: Mojave baseball field
dayDestination: Cantil
todayMiles: 24
tripMiles: 399
---
Met three guys from L.A. (the Unfortunates), who are hiking with Keltys, again. So this morning took off with them heading for Cantil.    I hiked most of the day along the enclosed and sometimes above ground and sometimes below ground, Los Angeles and California Aqueducts. At lunch we found a manhole cover and were able to extract nice, cool water, out here in the bad, hot desert. The manhole cover was only about 18 inches in diameter and came off with a bit of coaching. Then the problem was how to capture some of the water that was racing by about two feet below. We fashioned a cut away plastic gallon jug and tied a rope to the handle and lowered it down. As it hit the water it immediately filled and was dragged down with the raging water! It took two of us to pull it back up for the treat. I took off after lunch on my own cause they were in no hurry. While walking along the buried aqueduct with my head down to cast the maximum shadow upon myself with my wide-brimmed hat I noticed a large shadow whip past me and over the low ridge ahead. I looked up just in time to see an A16 jet fighter going over the ridge, about 50 feet above the ground and waving its wings at me. There was no noise associated with this at all, for a moment. Then, I heard it coming. I tried to get a hand onto my hat, but before I could a sound like a locomotive coming at me at about Mach 2 overtook me and the wind wake hit me with a furry of rocks, tumbleweeds, sticks, sand, dust and probably several small reptiles! The windstorm looked like a tornado and had it not been for the large backpack on my back I would have been bombarded by the debris that was kicked up. I found my hat about two arroyos over, none the worse for the ordeal and walked on in the midday heat, now sporting a wry smile. 
I got into Cantil around 4:00 and what do you know when in walks Lee Carter from UCSB and his three companions, Jed Morrow, Randy Harrington and Scott Mensing, all great guys so I can camp with them tonight.
