---
title: Mammoth Lakes
date: 1977-05-22
originalDate: Sunday, May 22, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292632
trailJournalId: 292632
dayStart: Big Pine
dayDestination: Mammoth Lakes
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 507
---
It’s Sunday and so all the stores are closed here so I can’t get any molefoam for my feet. I started off walking again and everything hurts like I never stopped walking yesterday. I’m really depressed, I’m tired of walking the roads, by myself, hurting and seemingly getting nowhere. (This, arguably, was the lowest point on the hike and the closest I came to quitting.) After walking about 5 miles out of Big Pine up pulls Ron “the Chairman” Hall in a pick up on his way to Tuolumne Meadows. I made up my mind and hopped in and he took me to the turn off for Mammoth Lakes. He had hitchhiked home and gotten his truck and a bunch of equipment. I’m really depressed about taking the ride but I just couldn’t take the road any more. (In years previous to this I had essentially hiked this section on long “100 miler” hikes with the Boy Scouts) I walked into Mammoth Lakes and immediately found the “Unfortunates” from Torrance and so I set up camp with them. They had had to be rescued cause they didn’t have crampons or ice axes and so they took a bus to Mammoth and have been here a week. We went over to a ski resort and watched TV, played pool and electronic ping pong. Late in the afternoon the Trailblazers and Jeff Zimmerman came in. It’s so nice tonight to be with friends, it’s lifted my spirits. It’s raining tonight. It seems every one got all messed up by the snow and came out (of the Sierra).
