---
title: Berkeley
date: 1977-06-01
originalDate: Wednesday, June 01, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292646
trailJournalId: 292646
dayStart: Berkeley
dayDestination: Berkeley
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 507
---
Fred and I got up at 7:00 to pick up Jay at S.F. airport. We all went to breakfast at “Mama’s” & we three went over to the campus & played 2 on 2 (basketball) on outside courts with another guy. I felt sore but good. We then proceeded to gather a lunch together while Jay & I prepared our packs. I ran over to S.F. airport again in the evening to pick up Laurie after she decided last night to fly up for a night just cause it’s her 21st B-day in a few days, and it’s convenient. Brought her back to Fred’s for dinner and entertainment and had a generally fine time. I got my stuff from Eddie Bauer this morning.   (That night Laurie told about a phone call her mother made to her on the night of May 8th – 9th. Laurie’s mom, Terry, had called to ask Laurie to call my parents and tell them that “Greg is in trouble, but he will be okay”. Laurie told her mother, “Sure Mom, I’ll call them and tell them this and then they will say, “Gee, Laurie, how do you know this?’ and I’ll say because my Mom told me so and she gets these strange feelings all the time!” Laurie did call my parents that night and discussed my situation, knowing the High Sierra was getting hit with a Spring snow storm, knowing that I was out in it essentially by myself. Laurie tried to reassure them that I was well prepared, knowledgeable and would probably be okay. Terry continues to amaze me with her “insights” to this day and challenges my scientific – logical way of viewing things. Her “insight” forces me to believe that there are clearly things going on in the our world that we do not fully understand. Just as leading scientists 500 years ago thought that they were on the cutting edge of understanding our physical world, yet were ignorant of huge volumes of electrical and material and medicinal understanding that we now take for granted, we too must be hugely ignorant of many things in the physical world.)
