---
title: Upper Lyell Canyon
date: 1977-05-27
originalDate: Friday, May 27, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292641
trailJournalId: 292641
dayStart: 1000 Island Lake
dayDestination: Upper Lyell Canyon
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 507
---
The sky is bright, bright blue and haleluya, it’s a beautiful day. Banner is impressive covered in snow and as we hiked north over Island & Donahue Passes, Ritter Peak came into view and the two stuck out like blisters on the end of your toes. Got on Donahue Pass by noon for lunch. The snow was deep but really hard so you wouldn’t sink in. Blue skies persisted all day and we got into camp real early afternoon in an outrageous spot right by the Tuolumne River. The high light of the evening was watching Mike, Joe and Steve trying to hang their food. Mike got one end of the rope with a rock stuck in a branch and then they tangled it all up. We were rolling in laughter by the time they finally hung it. The moon is bright tonight and it’s been a great day! (In 1974, my brother Jay and I hiked up to 1,000 Island Lake and explored around the area. We went over the pass north of Banner to Katherine Lake and made our way up the small glacier between Banner and Ritter that John Muir followed on the very first ascent of Mt. Ritter. We found a relatively easy way to the top of Banner from the west side and then came back down to the saddle between Banner and Ritter. Another small glacier flows from this saddle to the south towards Ediza Lake. Jay tested the near vertical ice wall of this, without crampons or ice axe to my horror and urging against. However, Jay slipped and simply cut the edge of his boots into the semi-soft ice and skied over, apparently in full control. He let out a yelp and said “Come on, Greg!” I summoned my courage and followed him down this intimidating wall and onto the lower angled glacier below. We then glissaded down about 1,000 feet, slipping and sliding and laughing all of the way, amazed at our good fortune.)(In 1978, Jeff Zimmerman and I climbed Mt. Ritter and had two narrow escapes from disaster coming down; one where I was descending into the top of a steep ice coulour when the snow I was descending on broke and began sliding down. I self arrested but I was on a large block of snow that was moving as one unit and it did no good. I finally (well, actually about 2.5 millionths of a second later) decided to thrust my crampon-laded boots through the bottom of the block and this slowed and then finally stopped me in a pile of snow before cascading down the ice chute. Jeff thought that I had gone down the ice chute as a lot of the snow did and he couldn’t see me buried in the snow at the upper mouth of the chute. He came bounding down calling my name and was ecstatic to find me there, frightened but otherwise fine. Jeff and I and others have since climbed Banner and Ritter many times in the years following until many of the memories have now begun to blend.)
