---
title: Weldon
date: 1977-05-01
originalDate: Sunday, May 01, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292612
trailJournalId: 292612
dayStart: Weldon
dayDestination: Weldon
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 445
---
I got up real late and just reorganized. I bought some film and food and generally screwed around. Ron Hall trucked in about mid-day and so we both caught up on stories since Wrightwood. About dinner time, the Unfortunates walked in, now re-complete after their fourth guy rejoined them in Acton. He worked with Dan Stark (a friend of mine from high school) and so he gave me his address. Why “the Unfortunates”? Because they have had nothing but bad luck and sickness, so far. First one of them comes down with the flu and has to go out to get help. Then one evening as they are preparing for dinner in a stiff wind a tragedy occurs that could have had much worse consequences. They had set up their four-person tent and one of them was in the tent preparing food and another sitting beside him prepping their stove. As he was prepping the stove a fuel leak developed that caused a fireball to erupt. It singed all of the hair on his arms, eyelashes and eyebrows and the edge of his hair and caught the tent on fire over his head. The door was behind him and his natural reaction was to roll backwards away from the stove and towards the door. He rolled out. The other guy sat stunned at the sight of the fireball and subsequent tent roiling in flame, consuming itself and heading towards him, dripping flaming molten nylon. The door was out of the question and no other escape was obvious in his growing panic. An open Swiss Army knife lay open at his side. He grabbed it and sliced the tent wall nearest to him open and quickly scrabbled out. The fire had taken only about 30 seconds from ignition to full consumption of the tent! That night they slept under the stars, in the open with the wind whipping around themI’m officially Big Foot or Strider for obvious reasons (Bill Jensen says on the first day they saw me off in the distance and then noticed these huge foot prints in the mud on the trail and the step-and-a-half stride between them. Right there they nicknamed me, before they even met me. Several of the people gathered at Weldon greeted me with the name of Big Foot or Strider, having heard of me or seen my tracks.) then there are the Backtrackers, the Portland Trailblazers, the Chairman (Ron), the San Diego Truckers, the Bay City Bombers, the Spikers, Chicago Turkey, the Crusty Cresters and the Kelty Kids, named for the packs they carry which are state-of-the-art models from Kelty. (I met Paul Hacker and Sjoeke for the first time here.) Dick Kelty came by this afternoon and talked with most of us. Tonight we sat around a fire and talked. I started to count the number of PCT hikers that I had personally met; 37 in all and around 50 including those that I’ve only heard about.<
At this point, all of us were focused upon what lay ahead in the high Sierra. The winter of 1977 had been the lowest precipitation in the Sierras in about 100 years. The rangers in Weldon said, when we arrived there, that snow levels were almost non-existent with no snow to 9,000 feet, patchy snow and ice to around 12,000 feet and solid snow and ice above that. We suspected light conditions because we could see the Sierras from the Tehachapi and Piute Mountains and couldn’t see much snow visible except at the highest elevations. I had prepared my parents to purchase snowshoes and send them to me in Weldon, if I deemed them necessary. I did not. My re-supply package to Weldon, although light on food, did carry new, heavy weight leather boots, in-step crampons, knee-high nylon gaitors, wool long johns, gloves and waterproof nylon mittens to go over the gloves. I already carried a waterproof nylon jacket, wool cap, waterproof nylon chaps and a down jacket.
