---
title: Independence
date: 1977-05-19
originalDate: Thursday, May 19, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292630
trailJournalId: 292630
dayStart: Onion Valley
dayDestination: Independence
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 481
---
It snowed three inches last night and a mouse took a shit in my Sierra cup. That pretty much typifies my attitude. I got a ride down to Independence with the 4 guys I met yesterday. They weren’t prepared for snow. They dropped me off at the P.O. and immediately I ran into Nancy Gardner who said a search party was out looking for me and that my parents were worried sick. So I picked up my mail and checked into the Sheriff’s office and then went with Nancy, who had gotten frostbite, to a friend’s house where I called the parents. Mom was crying and they were going to come up to Independence and see what they could do. The Sequoia N.F. Search & Rescue were out looking for me cause I was so late. Anyway every thing is settled now. I checked into a motel, took a shower, went shopping, and spent the rest of the day eating, packing and watching TV. (I remember walking into the P.O. and the nice, older lady there said, “You must be Greg Hummel!” I asked her how she knew and she replied that the Search & Rescue was out looking for me and my parents had called several times a day to see if I had picked up my package yet, and clearly were extremely worried. She told me that I could not have my package until I went over to the Sheriff’s office and informed them that I was okay and then go phone my parents and then and only then would she give me the mail package that contained food, clothing and money.)
