---
title: Mammoth Lakes
date: 1977-05-24
originalDate: Tuesday, May 24, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292638
trailJournalId: 292638
dayStart: Mammoth Lakes
dayDestination: Mammoth Lakes
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 507
---
Feeling much better this morning. It snowed last night and on and off all day today, pretty hard at times, but nothing ever collecting on the ground.    I packed my stuff up and went over to a cabin that Paul and Sjoeke are in at their invitation. It is a two story, with a fireplace, two bedrooms, 2 baths, real nice. Sat around there with P&S, Nancy and Jeff and did a lot of nothing and played cards all day. At night we all got psyched up and went over to the gym to play basketball against the locals. The Unfortunates, Paul, Jeff and I grouped as the P.C.T. Trailblazers. We lost the first game and then dominated from then on. It was a lot of fun but it show me how much I have to work when I return. The Backtrackers and the Bombers arrived this night and Lee (Carter) says they went the whole way thru the mountains and three subsequent storms. He looked pretty tired. The Bombers are leaving tomorrow as are the Unfortunates. I am going to leave with the later going thru Reds Meadow, Shadow Lake, etc. and get to Tuolumne Meadows in 3 days. After the B.B. game everybody came back to Paul and Sjoeke’s cabin and had beer, ice cream, spaghetti and Tequila! What a combination! We sat around until about 1:00 and BS’ed and had a good time. I’m thinking of joining the Bombers or the Unfortunates for a good long while.
