---
title: Long Canyon Creek
date: 1977-05-08
originalDate: Sunday, May 08, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292619
trailJournalId: 292619
dayStart: Long Canyon Creek
dayDestination: Long Canyon Creek
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 458
---
I would be in Independence today if not for my work stop and snow. The snow is 3 to 4 inches deep and seems to never stop. I’m not going anywhere today. I’m beginning to prepare plans of attack in case it doesn’t stop in a day or two. 1. Hike on to a private building the guide book says is a mile or so ahead or to an airstrip 3 miles ahead that is seldom used, or 2. Hike back to Casa Vieja Ranger Station 2 or 3 miles back, or, 3. Hike 5 or 6 miles back to the work site, or 4. just stay where I am (and wait it out). It’s pretty depressing just sitting here cramped up in this little tent. I have a book and my harmonica to amuse me though. My big event of the day was clearing the snow off and from around my tent where it had built up to more than a foot deep and then plod through the snow down to the stream to fill up on water. Whoopee! Have you ever been forced to lay in bed all day even though you felt fine? A strange thought occurred to me today; Where I am at the moment, I am totally alone. It is me and only me looking out for me. No one will be traveling in the weather and so far there is no reason for any kind of search and rescue. I am, for the first time in my life, totally dependent upon my sole decisions, judgments and actions.   At this moment no other person has any influence whatsoever upon me. Myself and my possessions are the only immediate importance to my existence.
