---
title: Berkeley
date: 1977-05-29
originalDate: Sunday, May 29, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292643
trailJournalId: 292643
dayStart: Yosemite Valley
dayDestination: Berkeley
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 507
---
I got up and tried Fred again. If I can get ahold of him I may go to Berkeley, exchange my pack at the San Francisco Eddie Bauer store and get a new one and then come back to Tuolumne Meadows Wednesday. I went to the head ranger and they said they couldn’t open the P.O. to get my package out but they could lend me $10 or $20 to be paid back Wednesday. They were really nice and understanding and I agreed to the $10, and went out to buy some food to feed my face. I remember pleading with the head ranger and him taking one look at my dirty and unkept look and immediately dismissing me, with a “the P.O. is closed and the postmaster is gone fishing and he has the only key and you will just have to wait.” I then dejectedly went back to my pack and pulled it on and began walking away, when suddenly he apparently noticed the ice axe; a most unusual tool in the Valley, and asked what I was doing. When I replied that I had walked from the border with Mexico to get there, he realized that I was hiking the PCT and his entire demeanor changed immediately.  I walked around the valley in the afternoon of this very beautiful day. Yosemite Valley has to be THE most impressive sights yet even though I’ve seen them before. All of the falls are full and falling. A few deer around and a lot of people, although they can’t even begin to detract from the beauty of these magnificent walls. I got ahold of Fred and he says “Go for it” so I packed my camp and proceeded to hitchhike from Yosemite to within the block of Fred’s place in 6 hours, not bad! My first ride was from two black guys, one who wrestles with Barret and Jackson at Oklahoma St. and the other plays football at U.C. Davis. Tim and Charles. Real nice guys, they bought me some beer as did one of my other rides.(Tim and Charles dropped me at the on ramp to a freeway in Oakland at about midnight. I stood there with my thumb out with my big pack and ice axe propped up against my leg. About the third car by stopped; a VW bug with a pretty young woman driving. She asked me where I wanted to go and when I replied “Berkeley” she said, “Get in quick”. I wasn’t sure what to make of her and then asked her what caused her to stop for a huge white dirty guy in the middle of the night with an ice axe? She said that in that part of Oakland I was lucky that I had not been shot by some black gangs whose territory I was unknowingly in!!! She drove right to Fred’s place. A recurring theme in this hike are the incredible people that I met and their genuine care, inspiration and kindness. Their singular acts of kindness propel me to this day.)
