---
title: Independence
date: 1977-05-20
originalDate: Friday, May 20, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292635
trailJournalId: 292635
dayStart: Independence
dayDestination: Independence
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 481
---
I’ve decided I’ll leave tomorrow but I’m going to take 395 to Mammoth (Mammoth Lakes) instead so I can catch up to somebody to hike with. Its about 90 miles to Mammoth so it will take 4 or 5 days of good hard hiking. The weather looks promising though. I’m camping in a park tonight cause I don’t have enough money(to stay in the motel).I spent most of the day writing letters to everyone. Mark Richanbach decided to cancel the apartment that I’m supposed to share with him next year and not tell me, according to Ken Slaught. We’ll see what becomes of that. I called Eddie Bauer Inc. and they said they will refund my money but they must have the pack first. So I may buy a new pack, we’ll see.(I woke up this morning to a brilliant day but could not go outside due to snow blindness. I had taken off my snow glasses coming over Kearsarge Pass due to warm conditions fogging them up and it damaged the receptors in my eyes, making them incredibly sensitive to light. I had roomed with Mark Richanbach and Ken Slaught in my sophomore year at University of California, Santa Barbara and had made arrangements before leaving on the hike to share an apartment with Mark. When I called Ken he warned me that this was going on and it worried me deeply that I would not be able to arrange for housing during the hike and would not have sufficient time to arrange for it after the hike and before school began in the Fall.)
