---
title: Toulumne Meadows
date: 1977-05-28
originalDate: Saturday, May 28, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292642
trailJournalId: 292642
dayStart: Upper Lyell Canyon
dayDestination: Toulumne Meadows
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 507
---
Today marks 2 months on the trail. Lyell Canyon was incredibly beautiful, 75 degrees and blue skies. Lots and lots of people though for the first time. It’s because we’re in Yosemite and it’s Memorial Day Weekend. Tuolumne Meadows 825 miles from Mexico but the store and Post Office are closed so I’ve got to thumb it into Yosemite Valley. I got here by about 7:00 in the evening to find the P.O. closed for three days. Too late to hassle trying to get someone to let me in so I went over to Sunnyside Camp, mainly for backpackers and mountain climbers. I have never in my life seen so many tents in such a variety. If you ever wanted to buy a tent this would be the place to find the type you like. I’m glad to say my Sierra Designs (Starflight) is the most popular. I can see ten of them from where I stand. There must be a 1,000 tents. It’s a goddamn city! I tried calling Fred (my oldest brother) but no one answers. Yosemite Valley is incredible despite the people and the weather is made to fit. (This night I camped in the “climber’s camp” and may have met several of the world-leading big wall climbers around a campfire, not recognizing the now famous names, such as Royal Robbins (outdoor clothing), Yvon Chouinard (founder of Patagonia), and others. We mutually agreed that each other were crazy!)
