---
title: Acton
date: 1977-04-23
originalDate: Saturday, April 23, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292601
trailJournalId: 292601
dayStart: Aliso Springs
dayDestination: Acton
todayMiles: 15
tripMiles: 328
---
Last night was nothing less than incredible. The roadside picnic area is called Aliso Springs and it seemed to be an honest to God wishing well. I told you about the guy in the van giving me food. Well after he left a guy and his girl pulled up to use the restroom. I just happen to need some tin foil in order to cook up some biscuits from the little bit of food that I had left, as I was coming into my next re-supply point at Acton after the last re-supply point all of the way back in Big Bear and low and behold they had some and gave it to me. After that I thought I was all set but then an elderly couple (Mr. and Mrs. W.C. Ball) pulled up on their way to their cabin for the weekend. Well it turns out he’s really super interested in what I’m doing and wants to submit a simple article to a local newspaper. I don’t know if he ever did, I should check the local papers around Pasadena. So he gives me a beer and his wife gives me a loaf of bread and some stamps to write them and then he gives me $4 to “help me to Canada”. I wrote them periodically through the hike and then every Christmas for years after, until one when their son wrote me to say that they had passed away and always enjoyed hearing how my family was and had repeated the story of meeting me up there so many times over the years. Their kindness and hospitality has put a smile on my face for quite awhile. Then I finished dinner and decided to hit the sack feeling I’d had a pretty good Friday night when up drives a van with three guys in it destined to make my night even better. Beer, peach Brandy, a little dope, and stereo music (Oh, the music . . . the music is the one thing that is so missed out here. The craving for pizza and hamburgers has subsided with the time and the comfort of a soft bed, a hot shower can all be set aside as the ground has become comfortable and your nose gets used to your own smell very quickly . . . Oh, but the music. It resonates within the folds of my consciousness with so much pleasure after so long without hearing any. You think that you can recite so many of the songs that you love, word for word and every note, but when you try, without the benefit of a recording or radio, it becomes a challenge to come up with all of those tunes and not allow just a few to get lodged and stuck in your head to the point of frustration!) and three really nice locals, all night sitting around my nice warm fire. After they left I was convinced that either this place was a wishing well or the powers that be, that great backpacker in the sky, had destined this night to be outrageous for me and empower my faith in people. I fell asleep listening to the gurgling of the spring, watching the slice of moon set in the west following the sun on an incredibly calm, cool, clear night. Needless to say it was as if I was in a dream (or was it the brandy and dope? ;-))
I got up real early this morning and hiked the 15 miles into Acton before it got hot and, boy, is it hot now in Acton waiting for Lynn and Dave to meet here. About 4:00 L&D came and said it was only a 40 minute dribve to their home so why not spend a few nights there. Well, here I am at their place being treated like a king (again) and going back to Acton and the hike on Monday morning. I’ll probably try to get some new shoulder straps for my pack while I’m here. My pack; I started with a backpack sold by Eddie Bauer (and thus came with their no-hassle, life-time guarantee) and made by JanSport and designed to “carry up to 100 pounds”. Yea, right. I had hand sewed on two extra pockets and added some customizing zipper pulls, like the “Black Bear Whiskey” little plastic bear, some nylon string and some other junk. I had my 36 inch, wooden handled ice axe strapped to it and an empty plastic gallon jug for carrying extra water through long dry stretches (the ice axe often generated a lot of questions from people). The shoulder straps were the first thing to go under the strain of carrying about 70 pounds over almost 400 miles. 
Strawberries! For breakfast with waffles, omelet, bacon and home grown, freshly squeezed orange juice. Wow! Lori came to see me for the day so we went and found some new shoulder straps and got some ice cream. It appears that we are going to try to get back together as we agree to try it out at least. The surprises never stop coming. She gave me quite a nice one this avo. Didn’t do a whole lot except kick back, enjoy the day and stuff my face. 
In a letter home I wrote: “I got the food and everything seems to be good. I’m here in Acton 3 days early so send food to Weldon 3 or 4 days early. Send some prunes, snowseal, and only one can of gas. I seem to have plenty of gas since I’m by myself. I’m waiting for L&D now. Rain expected Monday I hear, it might be nice for the desert. Ahh, in about a week & a half I’ll be in the Sierras. The last few days have been incredibly nice and I’ve met a lot of really nice, hospitable people. I’ve been in real good spirits and real good luck and I hope it lasts. I got your letter, gorp & food. Send a pair of white socks, band aids, beautiful girls, money, a ½ gallon of whiskey, four T-bone steaks and any munchies. Love, Greg."
