---
title: Weldon
date: 1977-04-30
originalDate: Saturday, April 30, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292611
trailJournalId: 292611
dayStart: Kelso Creek
dayDestination: Weldon
todayMiles: 13
tripMiles: 445
---
Up early and out by 8:00 (Their watch, remember? I didn’t bring one, intentionally) and screwed around all of the way to Weldon by 12:00. Waiting around the Post Office to get my package but it hasn’t arrived. A storm is brewing. I met Nancy Gardner, Bill O’Brian, Joe Anderson, Michael Wilhelm, Brian Norris, Sjoeke Rompas and Paul Hacker (Barry) at a store here and they invited me back to their hotel rooms for a shower, food and night, but I think just shower and food cause the KOA camp here is practically free. Bill Jensen and Bob Alexander, from Portland Oregon, are a couple of guys that I keep running into (first day, two guys with really skinny legs, “no way they are going to make it”). Bill Berg, Jeff Zimmerman, Carl Siechert and Norm Switzer, also. About ten to twelve people arrived here today. I also called my parents and let them know that the food drop was disappointing. This food drop was to carry me into the Sierras, which could have significant snow and thus traveling schedules could be altered and food, if not enough, could have to be stretched. I feel a bit of guilt here as my parents were doing a great job and didn’t have a clue what’s going on with me out there. I called them to give them grief over something that couldn’t be changed at that time, not to say “I’m here, I’m okay, I love you”.    Paul Hacker likes to recount meeting me for the first time in Weldon, saying “I walked up to the store and see this huge guy sitting on the ground and all you can see are his elbows, knees and feet, as his head, arms and hands are deep into a huge container of ice cream, shoveling it in as fast as he can!”Today is four weeks exactly from the day I started and approximately 1/5th of the distance!
