---
title: Gold Lake
date: 1977-06-21
originalDate: Tuesday, June 21, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292955
trailJournalId: 292955
dayStart: Sierra City
dayDestination: Gold Lake
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 547
---
We woke to the voice of Matt who had arrived last night but couldn’t find us til this morning. We crammed our stuff in his van and went up to Gold Lake and began up above the Sardine Lakes below the ominous and dominating Sierra Buttes. The day is unbelievable and everything is into spring and alive. We went up and over a ridge to the Tamarack Lakes and decided we just had to climb the 2 mile walk to a fire lookout tower at the very top of the highest butte. A climb from 6700’ to 8887’ so we left our packs after lunch and off we went. Once on top everything, 360 degrees, was clear and blue sky and you could almost see forever.   Mt. Shasta even way out on the horizon and the northern high Sierra in the opposite direction to the south. The ranger said we picked THE best day so far this year. An hour later we were back at our packs and exhausted and hot but still 5 or 6 hours of sun left. (Time maters little on the trail but the amount of sunlight is important so that you don’t have to find and setup a camp and cook in the dark.) So Matt & Fred took off to fish and I settled down to work on my new project; a walking stick carved out of an incredible branch of manzanita. A mighty tough day of climbing especially as Matt’s first. Tomorrow we’ll get more serious about mileage though. I could see where I’ve come for the last 3 weeks and where I’ll go for the next 3 weeks today. Ah yes, a very satisfying, beautiful day. Oh! Fred caught a 10” trout and Matt caught 3.
