---
title: Yreka
date: 1977-07-08
originalDate: Friday, July 08, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292973
trailJournalId: 292973
dayStart: Castella
dayDestination: Yreka
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
No package for Paul so he will have it forwarded to Hornbrook & hope it arrives before we do. Hitch hiked to Shasta City for lunch and then paralleled I-5 until we got to a truck stop and found no way to get to the next town, Weed, just 4 miles distant, so we had to take a ride on I-5. Walked to Gazelle, a small town on Old Hwy 99 paralleling I-5. Stayed at a school tonight on the baseball field. Walked on up 99 past Grenada for lunch and in to Yreka for 18 miles. I’m still not feeling well, and Paul’s feet are blistered. Hotter than hell today so it really drained us. Left our packs with the Police Dept. this evening and went to see “Silver Streak” and “Mr. Billion” at a theatre.    Had a good time and then picked up our packs and slept in the city park.   (As Paul and I walked into this charming, old style town with a central park and shops and businesses and restaurants all surrounding it, we thought that the best way to beat the heat would be to go to a movie. However, we didn’t think that they would let us take our packs into a theatre so we brainstormed on what to do. When I saw the old vertical Police sign, it hit me to ask the Police not only if they would watch our packs while we took in a movie but also to see where it would be okay for us to camp that night. They were curious about what we were doing and when we explained they gladly accepted to watch our packs. They led us into a rear “evidence room” packed with dead marijuana plants! Paul and I went to the movies and when walking back it occurred to me that I had a bit of the contraband in my pack! I told Paul, “I wonder if they will greet us with smiles or handcuffs!” They, fortunately, greeted us with smiles and we retrieved our packs. They then invited us to camp in the central park but promise to be gone by 6:30 AM the next morning as that is when the sprinklers would come on! We did and just barely missed getting wet the next morning.)
