---
title: Castella
date: Thursday, July 07, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292971
trailJournalId: 292971
dayStart: Castella
dayDestination: Castella
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
Looks like a nice day to be born on. Up to the P.O. and met Paul as it opened. He’s waiting for a package to arrive but it hasn’t so he wants to wait another day. Fine with me so he moved his stuff into my campsite with me and we just swam, wrote letters and lazed in the beautiful weather. Sitting on a rock in the middle of the river we discovered we were sitting on hexagonal columns like those in Devil’s Postpile. A perfect zig-zag crack in it too. Kind of looked like;(drawing of hexagonal pattern)We’re both interested in geology so it was a neat find. We bought beer, steaks,(1 lb. Each) strawberries, bananas, cherries and had a feast for the continuing celebration of my B-day. Excellent steak!
(In 2002, for a 25 year reunion of 1977 PCT thru-hikers, about 30 of us gathered at Castle Crags State Park, nearby. Paul Hacker and I, now both established geologists sought out this same spot in the river and found it. We fondly recalled how when we bought the steaks we hadn’t really thought it all out and realized when we got back to the campsite that we had no way of cooking them. We devised a way by wrapping aluminum foil around the burners of our gas stoves and basically frying them! The beer was Henry Weinhards, an Oregon brew that we were not familiar with then but which now always brings these memories flooding back.)
