---
title: Belden
date: Sunday, June 26, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292960
trailJournalId: 292960
dayStart: Bucks Lake
dayDestination: Belden
todayMiles: 22
tripMiles: 615
---
Up before sun up and on my way for a 2000 ft. climb, a 4000 ft. drop and 22 mile day to Belden. Nice trail but nothing really spectacular. I dropped the 4000 feet in the last 6 miles seeing and dying in anticipation for the Nth Fork of the Feather River. My feet were a hurtin’ when I got down but the swim made it all worth it. Camped in another P.G. & E. campground right next to the river and right next to 2 brothers hiking and hitching south using the P.C.T. as a guide. Went down to the local saloon, store, post office and restaurant, all rolled into one and got my packages, mail and a couple beers. Jim came in a couple hours later and so we went over and had a few more and got talking to “Whitey”; a local and he bought us a round, bought a case and we all went - - I must be crazy cause I didn’t even know I skipped these pages (I found two blank pages in my journal later that I hadn’t used, so I wrote this stuff on them out of order). I suppose when you live in the woods for 3 months that’s what happens to you. It’s a good excuse anyway. A couple things I haven’t mentioned: I lost my compass and my hard earned walking stick. Definitions:P.C.N.S.T.         Pacific Crest National Scenic TrailC.H.R.T.                 California Hiking & Riding TrailJ.M.T.                 John Muir TrailO.S.T.                 Oregon Skyline TrailC.C.T.                 Cascade Crest Trail* All above hiking on or in entirety this trip.A.T.                Appalachian TrailC.D.T.                Continental Divide Trail- - down the road to a little country home with a nice garden and nice young people and proceeded to listen to 3 very good guitarist and singers, sit-around a campfire, eat a delicious dinner of fried chicken, garden fresh salad and homemade ice cream with fruit, and . . . get drunk. All in all it was a great time. (Jim and I just walked into this town, strangers with big backpacks on, and were immediately invited into the town shindig just like long-term friends, such are some of the social traditions found in some of these small mountain towns.)
