---
title: Burney Falls
date: 1977-07-03
originalDate: Sunday, July 03, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292967
trailJournalId: 292967
dayStart: Burney
dayDestination: Burney Falls
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
Decided the Unforts aren’t here so Nancy hiked on to Burney Falls State Park and so did I after getting some supplies and doing my laundry. Paul met me just before I got to Burney Falls, 11 miles form Burney and so we exchanged stories and then went swimming in the ice cold pool beneath spectacular and volcanic Burney Falls. Really pretty! Sjoeke (Paul’s girlfriend who started with him) went home because of a rope burn around her ankle and has decided to not rejoin Paul. The story goes that they were in Yosemite Valley and playing Frisbee with a dog who was tied up to rope. The dog ran after the Frisbee, the rope wrapped around Sjoeke’s ankle and the damage was so deep that she couldn’t get it back into the boot. Finally met the Unfortunates here in a campground. The down to two for the moment, Tom & Steve, as Mike went home to salvage his pool business and will return before Oregon, and Joe is in Tahoe for a friend’s wedding and will return tomorrow. Had a good evening B.S. session. (with the Unfortunates. We were sitting around the campfire when either Tom or Steve, I don’t recall which, remarks “Yep, we continue to have misfortunes, Joe dropped his brand new Swiss Army knife somewhere on the trail north of Lake Tahoe.” I pulled out the knife that I had found and said, “Like this one”. “Yep, he said, just like that! I said, “Well, I found this one in the middle of the trail just north of Tahoe, so I reckon it must be Joe’s!”)
