---
title: Hornbrook
date: Sunday, July 10, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/292974
trailJournalId: 292974
dayStart: Yreka
dayDestination: Hornbrook
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
Left Yreka early and kept on 99. About 5 miles out of town we found the road closed and walked on anyway to a bridge that was built in 1931 and that they had stripped the road off of, leaving an iron “I” beam frame. On one side sheets of plywood had been laid down like a walkway, so we went across. Half way across the plywood stopped and then restarted again about 30 yards on. We had to walk on the “I” beam, bracing ourselves between two others with a 200 to 300 foot drop and a 70 lb. pack on. We made it but not without considerable damage to our nervous system. Onward to the Klamath River Hwy for lunch at a bar with patio on the river. A “Blitz” for me, thanks! Made in Oregon and new to me. Walked on to Hornbrook, which has to be THE pit of Northern California; hot, dry, a P.O. and a store. Period. Some real nice people let us camp under a big shade tree right next to their house and the P.O. Just sat around all afternoon and talked to “Dale” in the sweltering heat.   (Two huge signs saying “ROAD CLOSED AHEAD”, each one filling each of the two lanes on the highway are what confronted us. We surmised that we could certainly walk around any road construction. A few miles ahead we came upon the highway cutting through a ridge and slabs of concrete were stacked up like a deck of cards along the walls of the cut. When we walked through and saw the naked bridge and the deep gorge of the Klamath River below, we were rather intimidated, to say the least.   We checked our maps and found that a small road did switchback down to the river and switchback back up the north side, but it was two or three miles back and several miles of road down and back up the other side . . . or . . . just gather up your courage and walk across this 150 yards of iron frame!)
