---
title: Thielsen Creek
date: 1977-07-19
originalDate: Tuesday, July 19, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/293099
trailJournalId: 293099
dayStart: South of Mt Thielsen
dayDestination: Thielsen Creek
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
Walked to the north entrance of the park hoping for water there but found none at the guard station. (This stretch, north of the lake is an ash bed from the ancient eruption of the volcano, thus, no water, no plants, no trees, no shade, hot, clear skies, mile upon mile of dusty road walking.) The Minnesota Milers walked up as we were resting there and acting cocky and over-confident proclaimed a 35.7 mile day beating my 32 mile day. (This was so weird, the Minnesota Milers were apparently looking for records to make on their hike and thus when we walked up to them they didn’t even greet us in a friendly manner, but just blurted out that they had beat my “record”. This solidified in Paul and I the plan to hike more than 40 in one day and set our plan in motion.) The English couple, Graham and Barbara Ramsden, arrived with a ranger doing a survey on what backpackers look for in a campsite. We all stood around and talked until almost noon so Paul and I ate lunch after everyone else departed. Walked on up the side of Mt. Thielsen, the “Matterhorn” of the Cascades and very, very impressive geologically, a glaciated volcanic plug, and camped in a beautiful area next to Thielsen Creek with a beautiful view of the mountain. We plan to get up tomorrow morning and leave with first light and hike 43 miles to Cascade Summit. I must come back to Mt. Thielsen with better geological knowledge and study it. (Note to self!)
