---
title: Beaver Dam Camp
date: 1977-07-13
originalDate: Wednesday, July 13, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/293093
trailJournalId: 293093
dayStart: Southern Terminus of the Skyline Trail
dayDestination: Beaver Dam Camp
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
It turns out I slept all afternoon and night and part of the morning. I still feel a little poor in the stomach but onward to Hyatt Lake Resort where we stopped for supplies, to sign a register and give Paul’s dad a call. Feeling pretty good after a little walking so we went on to the Howard Prairie Reservoir for lunch. On the way we were crossing a meadow to save a little time and I sank in mud up to my shins and almost couldn’t get out. (There was a small stream in the middle of the meadow and I went to jump over it and the weight of my pack and me drove my landing foot deep into the mud. I tried to pull it free but the suction threatened to pull my boot off. However, I found that a slow pull finally broke the suction and all came free, covered in mud.) After lunch up past Howard-Prairie Resort, Dead Indian Rd. and to Beaver Dam Camp where a note on a bulletin board informed us that the water I contaminated. We purified water but later on a couple in a van camped with us and gave us some water they had brought in. I’m feeling much better and glad to be in Oregon. It was really strange but right when we crossed the border it immediately got greener and the weather cooled down. Yesterday morning it actually got very cold and I used my down jacket for the first time in almost a month.
