---
title: South of Mt Thielsen
date: 1977-07-18
originalDate: Monday, July 18, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/293098
trailJournalId: 293098
dayStart: Crater Lake
dayDestination: South of Mt Thielsen
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
Woke up to find it drizzling rain and foggy. Went to the P.O. to pick up mail for Paul including a huge food drop that really loaded down his pack. (When Paul and I joined forces we initially figured that we could eliminate some of our duplicate gear and food by doing so. By Oregon we were both very tired of our respective menus and thus, we quickly realized that each other’s menu was different and new to our tired palates. We also planned to send home one of the two-man tents that we carried and one of our cook stoves. However, before the next food drop and mailing opportunity we had a good, hard summer rainstorm hit us one afternoon and this sold us on the benefit of each of us carrying our tent and stove so that we could bring in all of our gear out of the rain and cook individually. This strategy paid off royally later in the hike in Washington.) Up to the rim by noon to find the lake totally obscured by clouds. As we walked around its west rim the clouds lifted only twice for poor pictures of what was outrageous yesterday. Walked down to a spring we see on the map but found it to be dry and by then it was getting late with the nearest water 5 miles distant. We finally decided we would try to stop a motorist by holding out an empty jug and the first car by, a VW bus, stopped and filled our needs. We hiked on down a mile further to where the P.C.T. crosses the road and camped. Paul and I are planning to try to hike 40 miles in one day, the day after tomorrow. We know we are crazy but we want to set a P.C.T. record for at least this year.
