---
title: Cascade Summit
date: 1977-07-20
originalDate: Wednesday, July 20, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/293100
trailJournalId: 293100
dayStart: Thielsen Creek
dayDestination: Cascade Summit
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
The day man first landed on the moon and I’m off with that same determination. Walked up to Tipsoo Mt. before I saw first sunlight and reached the highpoint of the Oregon P.C.T. overlooking Idaho, so I said “hello” to Jay & Beth. I reached Windigo Pass before noon, 20 miles (!) & had lunch at the Oldenburg Lake trail head. Downhill all the way to Crescent Lake through dry, dry forest on pumice flows. The trees all dead straight and similar circumference and with growth only at the very tops. Crescent Lake made it 31.7 miles, which equaled my Warner Springs to Anza day except now I still have 3 to 4 hours of direct sun left. My legs feel though they may cramp at any second. I got a second wind tho climbing up to Diamond View Lake in the Diamond Wilderness to make 37 miles to break the “Milers” record. The mosquitoes were bad and my shins were killing me from “shin splints” as I dropped the 6 miles to Cascade Summit and I finally stumbled into the store there after sundown but with daylight left as verified in the back of this journal. I’m exhausted, most so than ever before in my life. I’ve pushed myself to a limit I never knew existed. Mental is the key, physical is only the method. I had a pizza and a beer and “died” in a campground here beside Odell Lake. Victory is sweet, pain is incredible.
