---
title: Cliff Lake Shelter
date: Sunday, July 24, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/293104
trailJournalId: 293104
dayStart: Charlton Lake
dayDestination: Cliff Lake Shelter
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
Hideous mosquitoes plagued us all morning and thank God for my mosquito net hat! The forest just rolls on and on past endless stagnant ponds. Oregon so far has been very unimpressive except for a few choice spots. Met a boy scout troop from Portland and a couple of them are interested in doing the P.C.T., so I gave them my address. (I never heard from any of them, but this is how the seeds of a thru-hike are sown) Early lunch and a fight with my sanity because of the “squitos”. (squitos, mossies, buggers, god damned blood sucking bastards, all equate to the small pestering mosquito) The clouds once again gathered and threatened and the lookout! Cause down it comes pouring buckets and even hailing for a few minutes. It soaked my pants before I could put on my rain chaps so I just walked on. We walked for 5 miles in it to a shelter at Cliff Lake. It stopped just as we got there and pretty soon another guy, Pat, out on a day hike from Horse Lake joined us in the dry. The shelter is really convenient so we’ll stay here tonight. As we were walking in the rain, lightning struck a tree next to lake just south of Cliff Lake. Later, as the sun set we could see the glow of a fire in that direction and could hear and see planes watching it circling overhead. The glow died out later.
