---
title: Cascade Locks
date: Friday, August 05, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/293493
trailJournalId: 293493
dayStart: Indian Springs Camp
dayDestination: Cascade Locks
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 635
---
Pancakes were great! Wind is blowing but as we dropped into the creek it subsided. Dropped from 4300’ all the way below 100’ by the Columbia River today. Eagle Creek is second only to Yosemite Valley for amazing sights in one area! Criss Cross Falls do exactly as the name implies. Tunnel Falls has a tunnel the trail goes through behind the falls! Beautiful gorge with the trail cut right out of the vertical layer. We dropped down off the main trail to Lower Punchbowl Falls for lunch and there was a log suspended 10’ – 15’ over the falls and you could dive off it over the fall down 30’ – 35’ into the Punchbowl. Outrageous! As we ate lunch two couples were there and tried to help a guy whose dog had gone over a falls into a bowl with 300 foot sides. They tried and when they returned we engaged in conversation and I learned he is a professional artist, Glade something, and he learned of our trek & my height & B.B. & so he decided he would like to do my portrait in charcoal. So there I sat perfectly still for an hour staring at his fine girlfriend. He did a great job but says he’d like to touch it up with erasers and send it to me. It was fun even if I never get it. I never got it! On our way out of the mouth of the canyon we could see the guy with his dog all right way below walking out also. Found Jeff at the trailhead picnic area so we camped & cooked dinner & then was nicely kicked out by a ranger even though no “NO CAMPING” sign existed. (I hiked back into the canyon in 2006 from the picnic area that now does have a “NO CAMPING” sign and appreciated the canyon, if possible, even more. The trail is fashioned from carving out the eroded contact between two of the black basalt flows that have erupted and flowed out of the Mt. Hood area into the Columbia Gorge. As the creek and water eroded back into the stack of flows, it has preferentially eroded the contacts a little deeper than the vertical walls of black basalt. This is due to the “baked soil” that formed over eons before the eruption of the flow above. Thus, the trail is a slot in a vertical wall of black rock, with deep black basalt columns under Tunnel Falls covered in deep green moss. The trail is, in places, hundreds of feet above the creek bottom and similar eroded horizontal contacts are evident on the opposite canyon walls. Returning to Lower Punchbowl Falls, I was disappointed that my memory of this day did not seem to match the terrain, and perhaps I either got the falls wrong or the area has changed in the intervening 29 years.)We walked into Cascade Locks on the railroad tracks and camped right next to “Bridge of the Gods” spanning the Columbia River about as far north in Oregon as you can get and the lowest point on the entire P.C.T. Jeff said he met the one, the only Southbound P.C.T.er and that he must have passed us as we ate lunch. Bummer. He left July 4th. Go back to Eagle Creek but on a weekday!!! Many waterfalls.   (The “Bridge of the Gods” is a bit of a misnomer in that the bridge is not very inspiring. However, this area is named for a local Indian myth, but now has been shown to be very possible, about a natural stone arch over the Columbia River in ancient times. The volcanic stone may have been from a volcanic flow that was undermined by the river leaving the arch. A massive flood down the Columbia River at the end of the last ice age may have taken this natural stone bridge out forever.)
