---
title: The Summit of Mt Rainier & back to Paradise Lodge
date: Tuesday, August 16, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/294851
trailJournalId: 294851
dayStart: Muir Camp
dayDestination: The Summit of Mt Rainier & back to Paradise Lodge
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 664
---
People started to rustle and so we started on a quick breakfast, grabbed our gear and headed down onto the glacier. I have an ice axe, 12 pt. Crampons, rain pants and a rope clipped onto a brace around my waist. It’s not too cold cause there is no wind and the stars are exquisite, in fact I saw about 10-15 shooting stars in the first half hour. (Meteor shower?) Headlamps light our way and we cross the cirque (bergschrund)of the Cowlitz Glacier. Crevasses abound across the glacier as does much fallen rock and dirt. We notice a group of lights ahead of us as we climb up nearly vertical on the crumbling Cathedral Rocks. The path of previous guided parties is hard to follow so when the party ahead dropped down the other nearly vertical side of the ridge, of course, we followed them. The way just got steeper and soon we decided that either the party ahead of us was crazy and had no idea where they were going or they were heading to climb Little Tahoma Peak. We clambered back up to the crest and followed a much more obvious route straight up the crest to the Ingraham Glacier. Two parties ahead now after our little side trip and as we enter the Ice Fall between Gibralter Rock and Disappoint cleaver we catch them. The ice fall is just a jumble of crevasses and seracs and large angular masses of ice. The route finds its way through like a maze and we cross quite a few crevasses. Climbing up nearly 60 degree now and the wind is picking up so we don our parkas as it drops the temperature. The glow in the east is just now beginning to enable us to off the lights. We pass two groups ahead of us when they rest and the sun rises through the dark haze (maybe smoke from the fires) as we top the first summit. (As we passed the leading group, I think it was Jack mentioned later on, stopped, leaned on his ice axe huffing and puffing and swears and says, "Hold up you three! I been on this mountain seven times before, been blown off of my feet twice, been snowed out a couple times, and summited twice before, but I've never seen anyone moving as fast as you three! You made a bad turn back there and then had to turn around and now you're passing us and you're barely breathing hard. What did you do to prepare for this climb!" he demanded. The three of us looked at each other and just smiled and told him he wouldn't believe if we told him. He said, "Try me", so we told him, "We've walked 2,000 miles to get here!" He said, "Bullshit" But then we told him that we began at the Mexican border and he puts it together, "You, your your hikin' that Pacific Coast, that Pacific Crest, yep that Pacific Crest Trail, aren't you?")   I was scared to death in the dark, but now I’m feeling much more confident. Jeff is getting a pain in his big toe but otherwise we are feeling good. Across a very, very deep crevasse about 4’ across and a jump up is nearly too much, but we cross with no hassles. (We are roped together and prepare to jump this by the rear two setting in their ice axes solidly and giving the first person just enough rope to reach the other side, thus, should he fall, he will only fall the small amount allowed by the rope and the other two are prepared to break his fall. The first one jumps without any problem, then he and the last prepare sinking in their ice axes and allowing the middle man just enough rope . . . ) We rested at what we thought was the base of the summit crater and when a group of two men catch us, Jack Westlund (who climbed McKinley and Rainier twice before) says, according to his altimeter, we still have 600 feet to climb. To our relief though, it was the summit crater and boy was I excited!! Drop the pack, unclip the rope and off I went. It seemed as though my adrenalin overflowed the 14,000 ft. altitude and I even ran up the last knoll to the highest point on the crater rim at 14,410 feet (4394 meters) atop Mt. Tahoma (Mt. Rainier) as the Indians used to call it; the Fire God. . Steam is issuing from vents at the edge of the crater through holes melted in the ice that fills it. The view is glorious and the feeling is magnificent. The Olympics, the North Cascades and Glacier Peak to the north and all those mentioned before to the south. It’s about 7:30 and Paul, Jeff and I were on top first. When Jack and his friend from Poland arrive a procession of photography begins. Only 3 others are behind us and it looks like just us 8 are victorious today. There is a haze that prevents any view below about 5,000 feet. We left at 1:00 AM because then all the ice is still frozen and hard and a lot safer. So now we turn back down and descend as fast as possible before the sun melts the ice and starts rock & ice avalanches and makes snow bridges unsafe. Going down is just about skiing even with the crampons. (The Ingraham Glacier ice fall was moving visibly, almost imperceptivity, with loud pops, deep shuddering groans, and portions of the trail we came up on were already compromised by fallen ice bridges or widening of crevasses.) All of a sudden the temperature has switched from close to freezing to over 80 degrees with the glare off the ice. Things get very mushy but we get back to Muir Camp without incident by 11:30. Whew! What a great climb! We are all exhausted and Jack opens a bottle of Cabernet Sauvignon wine to celebrate. Lunch and then down the long Muir Snowfield down to Paradise Lodge with Jack and Julius. Report back in with the rangers and then shed our gear and clothes and relax with Duane. We camped up at Edith Creek just above the lodge tonight. Today I was awake nearly 21 hours of the 24.
