---
title: Kennedy Hot Springs
date: Sunday, August 28, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/294863
trailJournalId: 294863
dayStart: Sally Ann Lake
dayDestination: Kennedy Hot Springs
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 687.50
---
11 days to go!! It rained last night nearly all night and on into the day. It made packing up the tent absolutely miserable. It is soaked as is nearly everything except my sleeping bag. (My bag; a first generation PolarGuard fill, made by North Face, performed well when wet, as advertised in this new technology. How I kept it dry in day after day of rain, I don’t recall, but do remember is feeling extremely moist. The small terry cloth rag I had helped to maintain a near dry interior to my tent even when setting it up in the rain and literally having running water inside at times.) We walked in cold wind and rain all morning trying our best to not end up on our asses in the mud. We saw four people at White Pass who say there is a ranger station at Kennedy Hot Springs. So with hopes of drying out there we headed on. Over Red Pass and a long, long drop down into dense, dark moss-covered forest. It didn’t rain much after lunch. Anything lower than a foot off the ground is covered in green moss. Just as we reached the Hot Springs, down came thunder and lightning and torrents of rain. We found the ranger station and an accompanying shack all locked up so in desperation we forced our way into the shack and found shelter from this incessant rain. 8 straight days, I can’t believe it. If it’s raining tomorrow morning, we will lay over just to gather our sanity and dry out a bit. 20+ miles. . (Paul and I spread all of our wet gear out on the wood piles and hanging from nails in the wood rafters low over our heads. We sat down on the dirt floor and proceeded to play Gin Rummy and eat some of our gorp. No sooner had we started then the other inhabitants of the shed emerged and sat there, out of harms reach, begging with their little sad eyes for a peanut or such. An idea hatched in my head while seeing this and noticing that there was a large gallon clear plastic bucket also in the shed. I grabbed it and found a small stick and a piece of string and tied one end of the string to the small stick and the other to my big toe, propped up the bucket on the stick, dropped a few peanuts outside the bucket on the side away from me and a couple underneath, and went back to playing rummy with Paul. At this Paul started to guffaw and said there was no way. Sure enough, a small chipmunk emerged cautiously, grabbed the first peanut and quickly disappeared. Paul said, “See?” I said, “Wait”, and the chipmunk came back for the next, and the next, until he went for the one under the bucket . . . I twitched my big toe and down came the bucket with my hand on top. Immediately, the chipmunk freaked out and began running around and around inside the wall of the bucket, almost defying gravity! Paul and I could almost not contain ourselves at the amusement that we had provided for ourselves. Laughing and laughing, we tried to turn the bucket over without loosing the chipmunk by sliding a too-small lid under it first. This worked, except I had to hold the lid by two points so it wouldn’t fall in. The chipmunk studied this new situation, crouched . . . and JUMPED up hit the lid, flipping it, out he went and scattered into the wood, never to be seen again! In 2005, a mudslide off of the side of Glacier Peak took the ranger station, shed and hot springs and cleanly wiped them off the ridge. Sometimes, you simply cannot go back, except in your memories. The PCT, currently has been detoured around the south and east sides of the mountain.)
