---
title: Manning Park
date: Wednesday, September 07, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/294873
trailJournalId: 294873
dayStart: Castle Creek
dayDestination: Manning Park
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 687.50
---
The sun shone on my face this morning to wake me. We slept in relatively late. Everything we do today, we do for the last time. It’s like waiting to die so you can get on to the next life. Down the trail past some real wild looking canyons. One foot in front of the other, in front of the other and then . . . there it is!! We bound down the trail screaming, laughing, leeping. Our emotions flowwwwwwwwwwww. We laugh, we wonder, we cry. We drink our celebration whiskey, write a note of thanx to all those friends behind and ahead of us. A lot of pictures of the monument and us and then, sadly, we trudge off leaving that which we have been walking towards for the last 20 months in body and mind and soul. What are and were are there any words that can even begin to relate this day. You may have read this entire journal, yet, even after all those words you are but a babe compared to the giant of experience. In this experience there has been more life than in the entire 19 or 20 previous year of my existence. Every year on this day for the rest of my existence I will celebrate life, mine, yours, everything’s. THIS IS GLORY. Paul and I trudge over the last hill and switchback down to Manning Park some 7 miles now across the border. As we near there appear trail signs, obviously put there by Paul’s father and they direct us to our parents. My, how the emotions flow in reuniting loved ones, especially after such an endeavor.   There are no words. Back to a hotel or lodge room with Champaign, stories, and the park ranger. We even did a radio interview over the telephone for a station in Vancouver. It is all over – I cry – I’m tired – I’m happy – I am alive!My parents and I left that night and spent the next three days rushing past my accomplishment of six months.My dad arrived that day in wonder after driving for three days and the fact that I had actually walked all of that way slowly sinking in. My mom and he found the trailhead up the road just a bit from the lodge and Dad decided to walk up the trail just a bit, right as we came down the trail. At first sight, my Dad began to tear up in the flow of emotion, admiration and recognition of this feat. He grabbed me hard and hugged me and said, “Welcome to manhood, Greg”.
