---
title: Castle Creek
date: Tuesday, September 06, 1977
trailJournalUrl: https://www.trailjournals.com/journal/entry/294872
trailJournalId: 294872
dayStart: Shaw Creek
dayDestination: Castle Creek
todayMiles: 0
tripMiles: 687.50
---
Nothing less than a fine morning for our last complete day. I can’t believe it. Paul and I are feeling the mixed emotions but intensely excited. Over a few passes and through fields of now dieing and fading flowers with the coming of fall. Although the day and sky are perfect there persists a chill in the air throughout the day. A group of horse packers gave us a pint of whiskey to celebrate with, upon hearing of our origin and destination. (Paul and I were working up switch backs and noticed the tell-tale signs of horses ahead; manure and flies. Having little patience for such, we decided that we actually could speed up and catch them, and politely ask to pass. When we caught them a few switchbacks above, the lead horseman stopped, swore and asked us to come talk with him.   Paul and I figured we were about to get a tongue lashing as the general rule of thumb in the backcountry is that backpackers get off the trail for faster moving horse packers, NOT the other way around. When his first question was “Where are you two fast hikers coming from?” we quickly looked at each other, shrugged and told him the truth. Believing us, he stammered “You, you, your hiking that Pacific Coast, er, Crest, uh Trail, aren’t you?” When we replied with a nod of our heads, he said excitedly, “Well, you know the border with Canada is just a little ways over there” pointing to the north, we both said in unison, “Ah, yep, we know!!!” He thought a second and then turned to his saddle bags, dug around inside and extracted a small hip flask of whiskey, tossed it to us and wished us a great celebration.) As Paul and I were stopping for lunch upon a summit above Castle Pass, a voice summoned me from a ledge above us. Lo and behold!! There stood two men I’d not seen since the fourth day of the hike; Rick and Fred. Upon this summit we shared lunch, stories and breathtaking 360 degree view of the peaks of the Nth Cascades. They had jumped all around, walked, hitch hiked, and just had a good time. Seeing them now on the last day really capsulizes and brings into perspective the entire journey. We wanted to stay and camp with them tonight but we have to be close to the border tonight, so Paul and I hiked on over Castle Pass and found a classic campsite on the dry Castle Creek. Just a couple hundred yards downstream water was running. We ate all of our food, had a better than average dinner and just sat around the fire reflecting on the last 6 months. (In fact, while eating dinner I asked Paul where he camped the first night, over 5½ months ago. He replied, “Yellow Rose Spring” and asked me where. I replied the same, and then, we recounted, night by night, campsite by campsite, where we had camped on every night for the past 5½ months! I have never lived any other period in my life when I could thus recount where I had gone, what I had done, where I had slept on every day for so long into the past.) It seems all so unreal. I mean we have done it! After all the dreaming, planning, buying, organizing, walking, sweating, freezing, pain, enjoyment, frustration, and total elation of being alive, breathing in nature, that far off goal, dream, challenge has finally and absolutely been attained, completed, realized. Have you ever totally changed and reformed your entire life for the soul purpose of attaining a dream?! To succeed has got to be the greatest mixture of fantastic emotions a man can feel. My brain is numb. The night is very, very black. (Mike Ross, who hiked in 1975 (Mike, where are you? I've been looking to thank you ever since 1977!!), told me a story of his last night nearby. He was walking late in the day, on an inch of snow, leaving clear footprints and came to a “Y” in the trail. He decided to take the left trail and headed down it a ways. After a while he realized he was on the wrong trail and turned around. Within just a few minutes he found large grizzly bear footprints tracking his old prints for several hundred yards. He said, that over the entire trail he had not moved as fast as he did then to distance him from the grizzly.)
